The growth of "big data" created unprecedented opportunities to leverage computational and statistical approaches to turn raw data into actionable knowledge that can support various application tasks. This is especially true for the optimization of decision making in virtually all application domains such as health and medicine, security and safety, learning and education, scientific discovery, and business intelligence. Just as a microscope enables us to see things in the "micro world" and a telescope allows us to see things far away, one can imagine a "big data scope" would enable us to extend our perception ability to "see" useful hidden information and knowledge buried in the data, which can help make predictions and improve the optimality of a chosen decision. This book covers general computational techniques for managing and analyzing large amounts of text data that can help users manage and make use of text data in all kinds of applications. Text data include all data in the form of natural language text (e.g., English text or Chinese text): all the web pages, social media data such as tweets, news, scientific literature, emails, government documents, and many other kinds of enterprise data. Text data play an essential role in our lives. Since we communicate using natural languages, we produce and consume a large amount of text data every day on all kinds of topics. The explosive growth of text data makes it impossible, or at least very difficult, for people to consume all the relevant text data in a timely manner. Thus, there is an urgent need for developing intelligent information retrieval systems to help people manage the text data and get access to the needed relevant information quickly and accurately at any time. This need is a major reason behind the recent growth of the web search engine industry. Due to the fact that text data are produced by humans for communication purposes, they are generally rich in semantic content and often contain valuable knowledge, information, opinions, and preferences of people. Thus, as a special kind of "big data," text data offer a great opportunity to discover various kinds of knowledge useful for many applications, especially knowledge about human opinions and preferences, which is often xvi Preface directly expressed in text data. For example, it is now the norm for people to tap into opinionated text data such as product reviews, forum discussions, and social media text to obtain opinions. Once again, due to the overwhelming amount of information, people need intelligent software tools to help discover relevant knowledge for optimizing decisions or helping them complete their tasks more efficiently. While the technology for supporting text mining is not yet as mature as search engines for supporting text access, significant progress has been made in this area in recent years, and specialized text mining tools have now been widely used in many application domains. The subtitle of this book suggests that we cover two major topics, information retrieval and text mining. These two topics roughly correspond to the techniques needed to build the two types of application systems discussed above (i.e., search engines and text analytics systems), although the separation of the two is mostly artificial and only meant to help provide a high-level structure for the book, and a sophisticated application system likely would use many techniques from both topic areas. In contrast to structured data, which conform to well-defined schemas and are thus relatively easy for computers to handle, text has less explicit structure so the development of intelligent software tools discussed above requires computer processing to understand the content encoded in text. The current technology of natural language processing has not yet reached a point to enable a computer to precisely understand natural language text (a main reason why humans often should be involved in the loop), but a wide range of statistical and heuristic approaches to management and analysis of text data have been developed over the past few decades. They are usually very robust and can be applied to analyze and manage text data in any natural language, and about any topic. This book intends to provide a systematic introduction to many of these approaches, with an emphasis on covering the most useful knowledge and skills required to build a variety of practically useful text information systems. This book is primarily based on the materials that the authors have used for teaching a course on the topic of text data management and analysis (i.e., CS410 Text Information Systems) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, as well as the two Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) on "Text Retrieval and Search Engines" and "Text Mining and Analytics" taught by the first author on Coursera in 2015. Most of the materials in the book directly match those of these two MOOCs with also similar structures of topics. As such, the book can be used as a main reference book for any of these two MOOCs. Information Retrieval (IR) is a relatively mature field and there are no shortage of good textbooks on IR; for example, the most recent ones include Modern Information Retrieval: The Concepts and Technology behind Search by Baeza-Yates Preface xvii and Ribeiro-Neto [2011], Information Retrieval: Implementing and Evaluating Search Engines by Büttcher et al. [2010], Search Engines: Information Retrieval in Practice by Croft et al. [2009], and Introduction to Information Retrieval by Manning et al. [2008]. Compared with these existing books on information retrieval, our book has a broader coverage of topics as it attempts to cover topics in both information retrieval and text mining, and attempts to paint a general roadmap for building a text information system that can support both text information access and text analysis. For example, it includes a detailed introduction to word association mining, probabilistic topic modeling, and joint analysis of text and non-text data, which are not available in any existing information retrieval books. In contrast with IR, Text Mining (TM) is far from mature and is actually still in its infancy. Indeed, how to define TM precisely remains an open question. As such, it appears that there is not yet a textbook on TM. As a textbook on TM, our book provides a basic introduction to the major representative techniques for TM. By introducing TM and IR in a unified framework, we want to emphasize the importance of integration of IR and TM in any practical text information system since IR plays two important roles in any TM application. The first is to enable fast reduction of the data size by filtering out a large amount of non-relevant text data to obtain a small set of most relevant data to a particular application problem. The second is to support an analyst to verify and interpret any patterns discovered from text data where an analyst would need to use search and browsing functions to reach and examine the most relevant support data to the pattern. Another feature that sets this book apart is the availability of a companion toolkit for information retrieval and text mining, i.e., the META toolkit (available at https://meta-toolkit.org/), which contains implementations of many techniques discussed in the book. Many exercises in the book are also designed based on this toolkit to help readers acquire practical skills of experimenting with the learned techniques from the book and applying them to solve real-world application problems. This book consists of four parts. Part I provides an overview of the content covered in the book and some background knowledge needed to understand the chapters later. Parts II and III contain the major content of the book and cover a wide range of techniques in IR (called Text Data Access techniques) and techniques in TM (called Text Data Analysis techniques), respectively. Part IV summarizes the book with a unified framework for text management and analysis where many techniques of IR and TM can be combined to provide more advanced support for text data access and analysis with humans in the loop to control the workflow. The required background knowledge to understand the content in this book is minimal since the book is intended to be mostly self-contained. However, readers xviii Preface are expected to have basic knowledge about computer science, particularly data structures and programming languages and be comfortable with some basic concepts in probability and statistics such as conditional probability and parameter estimation. Readers who do not have this background may still be able to follow the basic ideas of most of the algorithms discussed in the book; they can also acquire the needed background by carefully studying Chapter 2 of the book and, if necessary, reading some of the references mentioned in the Bibliographical Notes section of that chapter to have a solid understanding of all the major concepts mentioned therein. META can be used by anyone to easily experiment with algorithms and build applications, but modifying it or extending it would require at least some basic knowledge of C++ programming. The book can be used as a textbook for an upper-level undergraduate course on information retrieval and text mining or a reference book for a graduate course to cover practical aspects of information retrieval and text mining. It should also be useful to practitioners in industry to help them acquire a wide range of practical techniques for managing and analyzing text data that they can use immediately to build various interesting real-world applications. 