and provides an overview of the book and background knowledge, including basic concepts needed for understanding the content of the book that some readers may not be familiar with, and an introduction to the META toolkit used for exercises in the book. This part also gives a brief overview of natural language processing techniques needed for understanding text data and obtaining informative representation of text needed in all text data analysis applications. Part II. Text Data Access. This part consists of Chapters 5-11, covering the major techniques for supporting text data access. This part provides a systematic discussion of the basic information retrieval techniques, including the formulation of retrieval tasks as a problem of ranking documents for a query (Chapter 5), retrieval models that form the foundation of the design of ranking functions in a search engine (Chapter 6), feedback techniques (Chapter 7), implementation of retrieval systems (Chapter 8), and evaluation of retrieval systems (Chapter 9). It then covers web search engines, the most important application of information retrieval so far (Chapter 10), where techniques for analyzing links in text data for improving ranking of text objects are introduced and application of supervised machine learning to combine multiple There are already multiple excellent text books in information retrieval (IR). Due to the long history of research in information retrieval and the fact that much foudational work has been done in 1960s, even some very old books such as van  and Salton and McGill [1983] and Salton [1989] remain very useful today. Another useful early book is Frakes and Baeza-Yates [1992]. More recent ones include Grossman and Frieder [2004], Witten et al. [1999], and Belew [2008]. The most recent ones are Manning et al. [2008], Croft et al. [2009], Büttcher et al. [2010], and Baeza-Yates and Ribeiro-Neto [2011]. Compared with these books, this book has a broader view of the topic of information retrieval and attempts to cover both text retrieval and text mining. While some existing books on IR have also touched some topics such as text categorization and text clustering, which we classify as text mining topics, no previous book has included an in-depth discussion of topic mining and analysis, an important family of techniques very useful for text mining. Recommender systems also seem to be missing in the existing books on IR, which we include as an alternative way to support users for text access complementary with search engines. More importantly, this book treats all these topics in a more systematic way than existing books by framing them in a unified coherent conceptual framework for managing and analyzing big text data; the book also attempts to minimize the gap between abstract explanation of algorithms and practical applications by providing a companion toolkit for many exercises. Readers who want to know more about the history of IR research and the major early milestones should take a look at the collection of readings in Sparck Jones and Willett [1997]. The topic of text mining has also been covered in multiple books (e.g., Feldman and Sanger [2007]). A major difference between this book and those is our emphasis on the integration of text mining and information retrieval with a belief that any text data application system must involve humans in the loop and search engines are essential components of any text mining systems to support two essential functions: (1) help convert a large raw text data set into a much smaller, but more relevant text data set which can be efficiently anlayzed by using a text mining algorithm (i.e., data reduction) and (2) help users verify the source text articles from which knowledge is discovered by a text mining algorithm (i.e., knowledge provenance). As a result, this book provides a more complete coverage of techniques required for developing big text data applications. The focus of this book is on covering algorithms that are general and robust, which can be readily applied to any text data in any natural language, often with no or minimum human effort. An evitable cost of this focus is its lack of coverage of some key techniques important for text mining, notably the information extraction (IE) techniques which are essential for text mining. We decided not to cover IE because the IE techniques tend to be language-specific and require non-trivial manual work by humans. Another reason is that many IE techniques rely on supervised machine learning approaches, which are well covered in many existing machine learning books (see, e.g., Bishop 2006, Mitchell 1997. Readers who are interested in knowing more about IE can start with the survey book [Sarawagi 2008] and review articles [Jiang 2012]. From an application perspective, another important topic missing in this book is information visualization, which is due to our focus on the coverage of models and algorithms. However, since every application system must have a user-friendly interface to allow users to optimally interact with a system, those readers who are interested in developing text data application systems will surely find it useful to learn more about user interface design. An excellent reference to start with is Hearst [2009], which also has a detailed coverage of information visualization. Finally, due to our emphasis on breadth, the book does not cover any component algorithm in depth. To know more about some of the topics, readers can further read books in natural language processing (e.g., Jurafsky andMartin 2009, Manning andSchütze 1999), advanced books on IR (e.g., Baeza-Yates and Ribeiro-Neto [2011]), and books on machine learning (e.g., Bishop [2006]). You may find more specific recommendations of readings relevant to a particular topic in the Bibliographic Notes at the end of each chapter that covers the corresponding topic. This chapter contains background information that is necessary to know in order to get the most out of the rest of this book; readers who are already familiar with these basic concepts may safely skip the entire chapter or some of the sections. We first focus on some basic probability and statistics concepts required for most algorithms and models in this book. Next, we continue our mathematical background with an overview of some concepts in information theory that are often used in many text mining applications. The last section introduces the basic idea and problem setup of machine learning, particularly supervised machine learning, which is useful for classification, categorization, or text-based prediction in the text domain. In general, machine learning is very useful for many information retrieval and data mining tasks. 