Unfortunately, pseudo relevance feedback is not completely reliable; we have to arbitrarily set a cutoff and hope that the ranking function is good enough to get at least some useful documents. There is also another feedback method called implicit feedback. In this case, we still involve users, but we don't have to explicitly ask them to make judgements. Instead, we are going to observe how the users interact with the search results by observing their clickthroughs. If a user clicked on one document and skipped another, this gives a clue about whether a document is useful or not. We can even assume that we're going to use only the snippet here in a document that is displayed on the search engine results page (the text that's actually seen by the user). We can assume this displayed text is probably relevant or interesting to the user since they clicked on it. This is the idea behind implicit 7.1 Feedback in the Vector Space Model 135 feedback and we can again use this information to update the query. This is a very important technique used in modern search engines-think about how Google and Bing can collect user activity to improve their search results. To summarize, we talked about three types of feedback. In relevance feedback, we use explicit relevance judgements, which require some user effort, but this method is the most reliable. We talked about pseudo feedback, where we simply assumed the top k document are relevant without involving the user at all. In this case, we can actually do this automatically for each query before showing the user the final results page. Lastly, we mentioned implicit feedback where we use clickthrough data. While this method does involve users, the user doesn't have to make explicit effort to make judgements on the results. Next, we will discuss how to apply feedback techniques to both the vector space and query likelihood retrieval models. The future sections do not make any note of how the feedback documents are obtained since no matter how they are obtained, they would be dealt with the same way by each of the following two feedback methods. 