This section is about feedback in the vector space retrieval model. As we have discussed, feedback in a TR system is based on learning from previous queries to improve retrieval accuracy in future queries. We will have positive examples, which are the documents that we assume to be relevant to a particular query, and we have negative examples, which are non-relevant to a specific query. The way the system gets these judged documents depends on the particular feedback strategy that is employed (which was discussed in the previous section). The general method in the vector space model for feedback is to modify our query vector. We want to place the query vector in a better position in the highdimensional term space, plotting it closer to relevant documents. We might adjust weights of old terms or assign weights to new terms in the query vector. As a result, the query will usually have more terms, which is why this is often called query expansion. The most effective method for the vector space model feedback was proposed several decades ago and is called Rocchio feedback. We illustrate this idea in Figure 7.2 by using a two-dimensional display of all the documents in the collection in addition to the query vector q. The query vector is in the center and the + (positive) or − (negative) represent documents. When we have a query vector and use a similarity function to find the most similar documents, we are drawing this dotted circle, denoting the top-ranked documents. Of course, not  all the top-ranked documents will be positive, and this is the motivation behind feedback in the first place. Our goal is to move the query vector to some position to improve the retrieval accuracy, shifting the dotted circle of similarity. By looking at this diagram, we see that we should move the query vector so that the dotted circle encompasses more + documents than − documents. This is the basic idea behind Rocchio feedback. Geometrically, we're talking about moving a vector closer to some vectors and away from other vectors. Algebraically, it means we have the following formula (using the arrow vector notation for clarity): where q is the original query vector that is transformed into q m , the modified (i.e., expanded) vector. D r is the set of relevant feedback documents and D n is the set of non-relevant feedback documents. Additionally, we have the parameters α, β , and γ which are weights that control the amount of movement of the original vector. In terms of movement, we see that the terms in the original query are boosted by a factor of α, and terms from positive documents are boosted by a factor of β, while terms from negative documents are shrunk by a factor of γ . Another interpretation of the second term (the sum over positive documents) is the centroid vector of relevant feedback documents while the third term is the centroid vector of the negative feedback documents. In this sense, we shift the original query towards the relevant centroid and away from the negative centroid. Thus, the average over these two terms computes one dimension's weight in the centroid of these vectors. 