Authority "Extra text"/summary for a doc Links indicate the utility of a doc Hub Description ("anchor text") What does a link tell us? As a result of all these concerns, researchers have made a number of major extensions to the standard ranking algorithms. One is to exploit links to improve scoring, which is the main topic of this section. There are also algorithms to exploit large scale implicit feedback information in the form of clickthroughs. Of course, that belongs in the category of feedback techniques, and machine learning techniques are often used there. In general, web search ranking algorithms are based on machine learning algorithms to combine all kinds of features. Many of them are based on standard models such as BM25 that we talked about in Chapter 6. Link information is one of the important features used in combined scoring functions in modern web search systems. Figure 10.6 shows a snapshot of a part of the web. We can see there are many links that connect different pages, and in the center, there is a description of a link that's pointing to the document on the right side. This description text is called anchor text. It is actually incredibly useful for search engines because it provides some extra description of the page being pointed to. For example, if someone wants to bookmark the Amazon.com front page, the person might make a link called the big online bookstore pointing to Amazon. The description is very similar to what the user would type in the query box when they are looking for such a page. Suppose someone types in a query like online bookstore or big online bookstore. The query would match this anchor text in the page. This actually provides evidence for matching the page that's been pointed to-the Amazon entry page. Thus, if you match the anchor text that describes the link to a page, it provides good evidence for the relevance of the page being pointed to. On the bottom of Figure 10.6, there are some patterns of links which may indicate the utility of a document. For example, on the right side you can see a page has received many inlinks, meaning many other pages are pointing to this page. This shows that this page is quite useful. On the left side you can see a page that points to many other pages. This is a central page that would allow you to see many other pages. We call the first case an authority page and the second case a hub page. This means the link information can help in two ways; one is to provide extra text for matching (in the case of anchors) and the other is to provide some additional scores for the web pages to characterize how likely a page is a hub or an authority. 