We've talked about PageRank as a way to capture authority pages. In the beginning of this section, we also mentioned that hub pages are useful. There is another algorithm we will discuss called HITS that is designed to compute both these scores for each page.  Authority pages capture the intuition of widely-cited pages. Hub pages are those that point to good, authority pages, or contain some collection of knowledge in the form of links. The main idea of the HITS algorithm is a reinforcement mechanism to help improve the scoring for both hubs and authorities. It will assume that good authorities are cited by good hubs. That means if you're cited by many pages with good hub scores, then that increases your authority score. Similarly, good hubs are those that point to good authorities. So if you are pointing to many good authority pages, then your hub score would be increased. Like PageRank, HITS is also quite general and has many applications in graph and network analysis. Briefly, we'll describe how it works. Figure 10.8 shows the following. First, we construct the adjacency matrix A; it contains a 1 at position A ij if d i links to d j and a zero otherwise. We define the hub score of a page h(d i ) as a sum of the authority scores of all the pages that it points to. In the second equation, we define the authority score of a page a(d i ) as a sum of the hub scores of all pages that point to it. This forms an iterative reinforcement mechanism. These two equations can be also written in matrix form. The hub vector is equal to the product of the adjacency matrix and the authority vector. Similarly, the second equation can be written as the authority vector is equal to the product of A T multiplied by the hub vector. These are just different ways of expressing these equations. What's interesting is that if you look at the matrix forms, you can plug the authority equation into the first one. That is, you can actually eliminate the authority vector completely, and you get the equation of only hub scores. We can do the same trick for the hub formula. Thus, although we framed the problem as computing hubs and authorities, we can actually eliminate one of them to obtain the equation for the other. The difference between this and PageRank is that now the matrix is actually a multiplication of the adjacency matrix and its transpose. Mathematically then, we would be computing a very similar problem. In HITS, we would initialize the values to one and apply the matrix equations A T A and AA T . We still need to normalize the adjacency matrix after each iteration. This would allow us to control the growth of the values; otherwise they would grow larger and larger. To summarize, this section has shown that link information is very useful. In particular, the anchor text is an important feature in the text representation of a page. We also talked about the PageRank and HITS algorithms as two major link analysis algorithms in web search. Both can generate scores for pages that can be used in addition to standard IR ranking functions. PageRank and HITS are very general algorithms with useful variants, so they have many applications in analyzing other graphs or networks aside from the web. 