Another trend we can expect to see is search engines that are able to learn over time, a form of lifetime learning or lifelong learning. This is very attractive because that means the search engine will be able to self-improve. As more people use it, the search engine will become better and better. This is already happening, because the search engines can learn from the relevance feedback. More users use it, and the quality of the search engine allows for the popular queries that are typed in by many users to retrieve better results. A third trend might be the integration of information access. Search, navigation, and recommendation might be combined to form a full-fledged information management system. In the beginning of this book, we talked about push access versus pull access; these modes can be combined. For example, if a search engine detects that a user is unsatisfied with search results, a "note" may be made. In the future, if a new document is crawled that matches the user's information need recorded in the note, this new document could be pushed to the user. Currently, most of the cases of information recommendation are advertising, but in the future, you can imagine recommendation is seamlessly integrated into the system with multimode information access. Another trend is that we might see systems that try to go beyond search to support user tasks. After all, the reason why people want to search is to solve a problem or to make a decision to perform a task. For example, consumers might search for opinions about products in order to purchase a product, so it would be beneficial to support the whole shopping workflow. For example, you can sometimes look at the review displayed directly in search results; if the user decides to buy the product, they can simply click a button to go to the shopping site directly and make the purchase. While there is good support for shopping, current search engines do not provide good task support for many other tasks. Researchers might want to find related work or suggested citations. Currently, there's not much support for a task such as writing a paper. We can think about any intelligent system-especially intelligent information systems-specified by three nodes. If we connect these nodes into a triangle, then we'll able to specify an information system. We can call this triangle the Data-User-Service Triangle. The three questions you ask are as follows. These questions specify an information system; there are many different ways to connect them. Depending on how they are connected, we can specify all different types of systems. Let's consider some examples. On the top of Figure 10.10 there are different kinds of users. On the left side, there are different types of data or information, and on the bottom, there are different service functions. Now imagine you can connect all these in different ways. For example, if you connect everyone with web pages, and support search and browsing, you get web search. If we connect university employees with organization documents or enterprise documents and support the search and browsing, we get enterprise search. We could connect scientists with literature information to provide all kinds of services including search, browsing, alert to new relevant documents, mining or analyzing research trends, or task and decision support. For example, we might be able to provide support for automatically generating a related works section for a research paper; this would be closer to task support. Then, we can imagine this intelligent information system would be a type of literature assistant. If we connect online shoppers with blog articles or product reviews, then we can help these people improve their shopping experience. We can provide data mining capabilities to analyze reviews, compare products and product sentiment, and provide task or decision support on choosing which product to buy. Or, we can connect 10.5 The Future of Web Search 215 customer service people with emails from the customers. Imagine a system that can provide an analysis of these emails to find that the major complaints of the customers. We can imagine a system that could provide task support by automatically generating a response to a customer email by intelligently attaching a promotion message if appropriate. If they detect a positive message (not a complaint) then they might take this opportunity to attach some promotion information. If it's a complaint, then you might be able to automatically generate some generic response first and tell the customer that he or she can expect a detailed response later. All of these aim to help people to improve their productivity. Figure 10.10 shows the trend of technology and characterizes intelligent information systems with three angles. In the center of the figure there's a triangle that connects keyword queries to search a bag-of-words representation. That means the current search engines basically provides search support to users and mostly model users based on keyword queries, seeing the data through a bag-of-words representation. Current search engines don't really "understand" information in the indexed documents. Consider some trends to push each node toward a more advanced function, away from the center. Imagine if we can go beyond keyword queries, look at the user search history, and then further model the user to completely understand the user's task environment, context, or other information. Clearly, this is pushing for personalization and a more complete user model, which is a major direction in order to build intelligent information systems. On the document side, we can also go beyond a bag-of-words implementation to have an entity-relation representation. This means we'll recognize people's names, their relations, locations, and any other potentially useful information. This is already feasible with today's natural language processing techniques. Google has initiated some of this work via its Knowledge Graph. Once we can get to that level without much manual human effort, the search engine can provide a much better service. In the future, we would like to have a knowledge representation where we can perhaps add some inference rules, making the search engine more intelligent. This calls for large-scale semantic analysis, and perhaps this is initially more feasible for vertical search engines. That is, it's easier to make progress in one particular domain. On the service side, we see we need to go beyond search to support information access in general; search is only one way to get access to information. Going beyond access, we also need to help people digest information once it is found, and this step has to do with analysis of information or data mining. We have to find patterns or convert the text information into real knowledge that can be used in application or actionable knowledge that can be used for decision making. Furthermore, the knowledge will be used to help a user improve productivity in finishing a task. In this dimension, we anticipate that future intelligent information systems will provide interactive task support. We should emphasize interactive here, because it's important to optimize the combined intelligence of users and the system. We can get some help from users in a natural way without assuming the system has to do everything. That is, the user and the machine can collaborate in an intelligent and efficient way. This combined intelligence will be high and in general, we can minimize the user's overall effort in solving their current problem. This is the big picture of future intelligent information systems, and this hopefully can provide us with some insights about how to make further innovations on top of what we have today and also motivate the additional techniques to be covered in the later chapters of the book. 