In the previous chapters that we grouped under Part II, we have covered techniques for text data access, which is logically an initial step for processing text data for the purpose of both significantly reducing the size of the data set to be further processed (either by humans or machines) and filtering out any obvious noise in the text data so as to focus on the truly relevant data to a particular application problem. In Part III of the book, starting from this chapter, we will cover techniques for further processing relevant text data so as to extract and discover useful actionable knowledge that can be directly used for decision making or supporting a user's task. One difference between Part II and Part III is the extent to which the information need of a user, or equivalently, a specific application, is emphasized. Specifically, since the purpose of text data access is, in general, to connect users with the right information at the right time so that they can further digest and exploit the relevant text data (with or without the help of additional text analysis techniques), the concept of information need and the closely related concept of relevance play an important role in all the techniques covered in Part II. For example, queries play an essential role in any search engines, and accurate modeling of a user's interest and information need plays an equally important role in any recommender systems. In Part III, however, we generally can assume that the text data to be considered are all relevant, so we will see that we no longer emphasize the information need so much, but instead will emphasize the goal toward understand the content of text in more detail and find any interesting patterns in text data such as topical trends or sentiment polarity so as to eventually extract and discover actionable knowledge directly useful for finishing a user task. As such, we will attempt to view the process of text data analysis as a special case of the general process of data mining, where users would use various data mining operators to probe and analyze the data in an interactive manner. Multiple operators may be combined. Specifically, we will view humans as "subjective sensors" of our world, and text data as data generated by such subjective sensors, making text data more similar to other kinds of data generated by objective machine sensors and enabling us to naturally discuss how to jointly analyze text and non-text data together. However, we must point out that the separation of the text data access stage and text data analysis stage, thus also the separation of Part II and Part III in the book, is somewhat artificial since in a sophisticated application, these two stages are often interleaved, and an iterative process involving both stages is often followed. For example, after a user has zoomed into a set of relevant documents and performed an analysis task (such as clustering of documents into topical clusters), the user may also choose to further search inside a particular cluster to further zoom into a specific subset of documents, and additional analysis operators such as sentiment analysis may then be applied to this newly obtained smaller subset. Moreover, techniques from both Part II and Part III can often be combined to provide more useful functions to users (e.g., summarization can be naturally combined with a search engine or recommender system), and they may enhance each other (e.g., the term weighitng methods discussed in Part II are also very useful for many tasks such as clustering, categorization, and summarization in Part III, and clustering in Part III can be useful for improving retrieval algorthm covered in Part II). Nevertheless, we have chosen to separate them so as to allow the readers to see a meaningful overall picture of all the techniques we covered and their high-level relations. 