The importance of text data to our lives can be easily seen from the fact that we all process a lot of text data on a daily basis. In most cases, however, the computers only play a minor role in the entire process of making use of text data; for example, we use search engines frequently, but once we find relevant documents, the further processing of the found documents is generally done manually. Such a manual process is acceptable when the amount of text data to be processed is small, the application task does not demand a fast response, and when we have the time to digest text data. However, as the amount of text data increases, the manual processing of text data would not be feasible or acceptable, especially for time-critical applications. Thus, it becomes increasingly essential to develop advanced text analysis tools to help us digest and make use of text data effectively and efficiently. In general, we may distinguish two kinds of text analysis applications. One kind is those that can replace our current manual labor in digesting text content; they help improve our productivity, but do not do anything beyond what we humans can 12.1 Motivation: Applications of Text Data Analysis 243 do. For example, automatic sorting of emails would save us a lot of time. The other kind is those that can discover knowledge that we humans may not be able to do even if we have "sufficient" time to read all the text data. For example, an intelligent biomedical literature anlayzer may reveal a chain of associations of genes and diseases by synthesizing gene-gene relations and gene-disease relations scattered in many different research articles, thus suggesting a potential opportunity to design drugs targeting some of the genes for treatment of a disease. Due to the broad coverage of knowledge in text data and our reliance on text data for communications, it is possible to imagine text analysis applications in virtually any domain. Below are just a few specific examples that may provide some application contexts for understanding the text analysis techniques covered in the subsequent chapters. One important application domain of text analysis is business intelligence. For example, product managers may be interested in hearing customer feedback about their products, knowing how well their products are being received as compared to the products of competitors. This can be a good opportunity for leveraging text data in the form of product reviews on the Web. If we can develop and master text mining techniques to tap into such an information source to extract the knowledge and opinions of people about these products, then we can help these product managers gain business intelligence or gain feedback from their customers. Another important application domain is scientific research, where timely digestion of knowledge encoded in literature articles is essential. Scientists are also interested in knowing the trends of research topics or learning about discoveries in fields related to their own. This problem is especially important in biology research-different communities tend to use different terminologies, yet they're stating very similar problems. How can we integrate the knowledge that is covered in different communities (using different vocabularies) to help study a particular problem? Answering such a question speeds up scientific discovery. There are many more such examples where we can leverage text data to discover usable knowledge to optimize our decision-making processes. Yet another broad category of applications is to leverage social media to optimize decision making. In general, we can imagine building an intelligent sensor system to "listen" to all the text data produced in real time, especially social media data such as tweets which report real-world events almost in real time, and monitor interesting patterns relevant to an application. For example, performing sentiment analysis on people's opinions about policies can help better understand society's response to a policy and thus potentially improve the policy if needed. Disaster response and management would benefit early discovery of any warning signs of a natural disaster, which is possible through analyzing tweets in real time. In general, "big data" can enhance our perception. Just as a microscope allows us to see things in the "micro world," and a telescope allows us to see things far away, in the era of big data, we may envision a "datascope" would allow us to "see" useful hidden knowledge buried in large amounts of data. As a special kind of data, text data presents unique opportunities to help us "see" virtually all kinds of knowledge we encode in text, especially knowledge about people's opinions and thoughts, which may not be easy to see in other kinds of data. 