This can be regarded as mining content to describe the observed world in the author's mind. Mining knowledge about the observers (text producers). Since humans are subjective sensors, the text data expressed by humans often contain subjective statements and opinions that may be unique to the particular human observer (text producers). Thus, we can potentially mine text data to infer some properties of the authors that produced the text data, such as the mood or sentiment of the person toward an issue. Note that we distinguish mining knowledge about the observed world from mining knowledge about the text producer because text data is generally a mixture of objective statements about the world observed and subjective statements or comments reflecting the text producer's opinions and beliefs, and it is possible and useful to extract each separately. Inferring knowledge about properties of the real world. On the left side of the figure, we illustrate that text mining can also allow us to infer values of interesting real world variables by leveraging the correlation of the values of such variables and the content in text data. For example, there may be some correlation between the stock price changes on the stock market and the events reported in the news data (e.g., a positive earnings report of a company may be correlated with the increase of the stock price of the company). Such correlations can be leveraged to perform text-based forecasting, where we use text data as a basis for prediction of other variables that may only be remotely related to text data (e.g., prediction of stock prices). Inference about unknown factors that affect decision making can have many applications, especially if we can make predictions about future events (i.e., text-based predictive analytics). Note that when we infer other real-world variables, it is often possible and beneficial to leverage the results of all kinds of text mining algorithms to generate more effective features for use in a predictive model than the basic features we can generate directly from the original text data. For example, if we can mine text data to discover topics, we would be able to use topics (i.e., a set of semantically related words), rather than individual words, as features. Since topics can address the issue of word sense ambiguity and variations of word usages when discussing a topic, such high-level semantic features can be expected to be more effective than word-level features for prediction. Another example is to predict what products may be liked by a user based on 