Word association mining is a fundamental technique, in that it is often used as a first step in many other tasks. In this chapter, we gave one example of using word association mining for query expansion. The best way to convince an application developer that they should use word association mining is to show how it can improve their application. If the application is search, the question becomes: Does adding query expansion via word association mining improve MAP at a statistically-significant level? We know how to perform this type of evaluation from Chapter 9. The variable we control here between the two experiments is whether we perform query expansion or not. To be more thorough, we can compare query expansion with word association mining to query expansion with (for example) Rocchio feedback as a baseline model. To evaluate word association mining in isolation, we would need some set of gold standard data. If we don't have such data, we would need to use human manual effort to judge whether the associations found are acceptable. Let's first consider the case where we have gold-standard data. Without loss of generality, assume we wish to evaluate syntagmatic association mining. Given a word, the task may be to rank all other words in the vocabulary according to how similar they are to the target word. Thus, we could compute average precision for each word, and use MAP as a summary metric over each word that we evaluate. Of course, if such ranked lists contained numerical relevance scores we could instead use NDCG and average NDCG. A human-based evaluation metric would be intrusion detection. In fact, this is one measure described in the evaluation of topic models [Chang et al. 2009], which we discuss further in Chapter 17. If the word associations are good, it should be fairly easy to find an "intruder" that has been added into the top k similar words. For example, consider the following two examples of intrusion detection presented in Chang et al. [2009]. We have two lists with k + 1 = 6 items. The top k = 5 items are chosen for some word in the vocabulary and an additional random word from the vocabulary is also added. L 1 = {dog , cat, horse, apple, pig , cow}, 