A complementary clustering method to our hierarchical algorithm is a top-down, divisive approach. In this approach, we repeatedly apply a flat clustering algorithm to partition the data into smaller and smaller clusters. In flat clustering, We will start with an initial tentative clustering and iteratively improve it until we reach some stopping criterion. Here, we represent a cluster with a centroid; a centroid is a special document that represents all other documents in its cluster, usually as an average of all its members' values. The K-means algorithm 1 sets K centroids and iteratively reassigns documents to each one until the change in cluster assignment is small or nonexistent. This technique is described in the algorithm below. Let sim( . ) be the chosen documentdocument similarity measure. The two steps in K-means are marked as the expectation step (Ex.) and the maximization step (Max.); this algorithm is one instantiation of the widely found Expectation-Maximization algorithm, commonly called just EM. We will return to this powerful algorithmic paradigm in much more detail in Chapter 17 on topic 1. K-means is not at all related to the classification algorithm k-NN (see Chapter 15). 283  analysis through the PLSA algorithm. For this chapter, it is sufficient to realize that K-means is a particular manifestation of hard cluster assignment via EM. Figure 14.4 shows the K-means algorithm in action. Frame (a) shows our initial setup with the data points to be clustered. Here we visualize the data points with different shapes to suggest that there are three distinct clusters, corresponding to three shapes (crosses, circles, and triangles). Frame (b) shows how three random centroids are chosen (K = 3). In frame (c), the black lines show the partition of documents in their respective centroid. These lines can be found by first drawing a line to connect each pair of centroids and then finding the perpendicular bisectors of the segments connecting two centroids. This step is marked (Ex.) in the pseudocode. Then, once the cluster assignments are determined, frame (d) shows how the centroids are recomputed to improve the centroids' positions. This centroid reassignment step is marked as (Max.) in the pseudocode. Thus, frames (c) and (d) represent one iteration of the algorithm which leads to improved centroids. Frames (e) further shows how the algorithm can continue to obtain improved boundaries, which in turn would lead to further improved centroids. 