Can a confusion matrix give us any clue to class imbalances? Explain. Text summarization refers to the task of compressing a relatively large amount of text data or a long text article into a more concise form for easy digestion. It is obviously very important for text data access, where it can help users see the main content or points in the text data without having to read all the text. Summarization of search engine results is a good example of such an application. However, summarization can also be useful for text data analysis as it can help reduce the amount of text to be processed, thus improving the efficiency of any analysis algorithm. However, summarization is a non-trivial task. Given a large document, how can we convey the important points in only a few sentences? And what do we mean by "document" and "important"? Although it is easy for a human to recognize a good summary, it is not as straightforward to define the process. In short, for any text summarization application, we'd like a semantic compression of text; that is, we would like to convey essentially the same amount of information in less space. The output should be fluent, readable language. In general, we need a purpose for summarization although it is often hard to define one. Once we know a purpose, we can start to formulate how to approach the task, and the problem itself becomes a little easier to evaluate. In one concrete example, consider a news summary. If our input is a collection of news articles from one day, a potentially valid output is a list of headlines. Of course, this wouldn't be the entire list of headlines, but only those headlines that would interest a user. For a different angle, consider a news summarization task where the input is one text news article and the output should be one paragraph explaining what the article talks about in a readable format. Each task will require a different solution. Summarizing retrieval results is also of particular interest. On a search engine result page, how can we help the user click on a relevant link? A common strategy is to highlight words matching the query in a short snippet. An alternative approach would be to take a few sentences to summarize each result and display the short summaries on the results page. Using summaries in this way could give the user a better idea of what information the document contains before he or she decides to read it. Opinion summarization is useful for both businesses and shoppers. Summarizing all reviews of a product lets the business know whether the buyers are satisfied (and why). The review summaries also let the shoppers make comparisons between different products when searching online. Reviews can be further broken down into summaries of positive reviews and summaries of negative reviews. An even more granular approach described in Wang et al. [2010] and Wang et al. [2011] and further discussed in Chapter 18 uses topic models to summarize product reviews relating to different aspects. For hotel reviews, this could correspond to service, location, price, and value. Although the output in these two works is not a humanreadable summary, we could imagine a system that is able to summarize all the hotel reviews in English (or any other language) for the user. In this chapter, we overview two main paradigms of summarization techniques and investigate their different applications. 