At the beginning of the chapter, we've already touched on a few summarization applications; we mentioned news articles, retrieval results, and opinion summarization. Summarization saves users time from manually reading the entire corpus while simultaneously enhancing preexisting data with summary "annotations." The aspect opinion analysis mentioned earlier segments portions of user reviews into speaking about a particular topic. We can use this topic analysis to collect passages of text into a large group of comments on one aspect. Instead of describing this aspect with sorted unigram words, we could run a summarizer on each topic, generating readable text as output. These two methods complement each other, since the first step finds what aspects the users are interested in, while the second step conveys the information. A theme in this book is the union of both structured and unstructured data, mentioned much more in detail in Chapter 19. Summarization is an excellent example of this application. For example, consider a financial summarizer with text reports from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as well as raw stock market data. Summarizing both these data sources in one location would be very valuable for (e.g.) mutual fund managers or other financial workers. Being able to summarize (in text) a huge amount of structured trading data could reveal patterns that humans would otherwise be unaware of-this is an example of knowledge discovery. E-discovery (electronic discovery) is the process of finding relevant information in litigation (lawsuits and court cases). Lawyers rely on e-discovery to sift through vast amounts of textual information to build their case. The Enron email dataset 1 is a well-known corpus in this field. Summarizing email correspondence between two people or a department lets investigators quickly decide whether they'd like to dig deeper in a particular area or try another approach. In this way, summarization and search are coupled; search allows a subset of data to be selected that is relevant to a query, and the summarization can take the search results and quickly explain them to the user. Finally, linking email correspondence together (from sender to receivers) is a structured complement to the unstructured text content of the email itself. Perhaps of more interest to those reading this book is the ability to summarize research from a given field. Given proceedings from a conference, could we have a summarizer explain the main trends and common approaches? What was most novel compared to previous conferences? When writing your own paper, can you write everything except the introduction and related work? The introduction is an overview summary of your paper. Related work is mostly a summary of papers similar to yours.  