In this chapter, we're going to talk about mining a different kind of knowledge, namely knowledge about the observer or humans that have generated the text data. In particular, we're going to talk about opinion mining and sentiment analysis. As we discussed earlier, text data can be regarded as data generated from humans as subjective sensors. In contrast, we have other devices such as video recorders that can report what's happening in the real world to generate data. The main difference between text data and other data (like video data) is that it has rich opinions, and the content tends to be subjective because it's generated from humans, as shown in Figure 18.1. This is actually a unique advantage of text data as compared to other data because this offers us a great opportunity to understand the observers-we can mine text data to understand their opinions. Let's start with the concept of an opinion. It's not that easy to formally define an opinion, but for the most part we would define an opinion as a subjective statement describing what a person believes or thinks about something, as shown in Figure 18.2. Let's first look at the key word subjective in the figure; this is in contrast with an objective statement or factual statement. This is a key differentiating factor from opinions which tends to be not easy to prove wrong or right, because it reflects what the person thinks about something. In contrast, an objective statement can usually be proved wrong or right. For example, you might say a computer has a screen and a battery. Clearly, that's something you can check; either it has a battery or doesn't. In contrast with this, think about a sentence such as, "This laptop has the best battery life" or "This laptop has a nice screen." These statements are more subjective and it's very hard to prove whether they are wrong or right. The word person indicates an opinion holder. When we talk about an opinion, it's about an opinion held by someone. Of course, an opinion will depend on culture, 