"… In an effort to get residents to wake up and pay attention to Hurricane Sandy, the governor of Connecticut just said that Sandy might be as bad as the worst hurricane ever to hit New England-the hurricane of 1938. …" Let's take a simple example of a product review. In this case, we already know the opinion holder and the target. When the review is posted, we can usually extract this information. Additional understanding by analyzing the user-generated text adds value to mining the opinions. Figure 18.3 shows a sentence extracted from a news article. In this case, we have an implicit holder and an implicit target since we don't automatically know this information. This makes the task harder. As humans, we can identify the opinion holder as the governor of Connecticut. We can also identify the target, Hurricane Sandy, but there is also another target mentioned which is the hurricane of 1938. What's the opinion? There is negative sentiment indicated by words like bad and worst. We can also identify context, which is New England. All these elements must be extracted by using NLP techniques. Analyzing the sentiment in news is still quite difficult; it's more difficult than the analysis of opinions in product reviews. There are also some other interesting variations. First, let's think about the opinion holder. The holder could be an individual or it could be group of people. Sometimes, the opinion is from a committee or from a whole country of people. Opinion targets will vary greatly as well; they can be about one entity, a particular person, a particular product, a particular policy, and so on. An opinion could also only be about one attribute of a particular entity. For example, it could just be about the battery of a smartphone. It could even be someone else's opinion, and one person might comment on another person's opinion. Clearly, there is much variation here that will cause the problem to take different forms. Opinion content can also vary on the surface: we can identify a one-sentence opinion or a one-phrase opinion. We can also have longer text to express an opinion, such as a whole news article. Furthermore, we can identify the variation in the sentiment or emotion of the opinion holder. We can distinguish positive vs. negative or neutral sentiment. Finally, the opinion context can also vary. We can have a simple context, like a different time or different locations. There could be also complex contexts, such as some background of a topic being discussed. When an opinion is expressed in a particular discourse context, it has to be interpreted in different ways than when it's expressed in another context. From a computational perspective, we're mostly interested in what opinions can be extracted from text data. One computational objective might be to determine the target of an opinion. For example, "I don't like this phone at all," is clearly an opinion by the speaker about a phone. In contrast, the text might also report opinions about others. One could make an observation about another person's opinion and report this opinion. For example, "I believe he loves the painting." That opinion is really expressed from another person; it doesn't mean this person loves that painting. Clearly, these two kinds of opinions need to be analyzed in different ways. Sometimes, a reviewer might mention opinions of his or her friend. Another complication is that there may be indirect opinions or inferred opinions that can be obtained by making inferences about what is expressed in the text that might not necessarily look like opinion. For example, one statement might be, "This phone ran out of battery in only one hour." Now, this is in a way a factual statement because it's either true or false. However, one can also infer some negative opinions about the quality of the battery of this phone, or the opinion about the battery life. These are interesting variations that we need to pay attention to when we extract opinions. The task of opinion mining can be defined as taking contextualized input to generate a set of opinion representations, as shown in Figure 18.4. Each representation should identify the opinion holder, target, content, and context. Ideally, we can also infer opinion sentiment from the comment and the context to better understand the opinion. Often, some elements of the representation are already known. We just saw an example in the case of a product review where the opinion holder and the opinion target are often explicitly identified. 