In this section, we discuss how to use non-text data as context to enrich topic analysis of text data. Such analysis techniques can be regarded as an extension of topic analysis to further reveal the correlation of topics and any associated context (e.g., time or location). When topics represent opinions, we may also reveal context-dependent opinions. Contextual text mining can be very useful for textbased prediction because it allows us to combine non-text data with text data to derive potentially very effective sophisticated predictors. Contextual text mining is generally useful because text often has rich contextual information. First, text data almost always have metadata available (such as time, location, author, and source of the data), which can be regarded as direct context information. Second, text data may also have indirect context which refers to additional data related to the metadata. For example, from the authors of a text article, we can further obtain additional context such as the social network of the author, the author's age, or the author's location. Such information is not in general directly related to the text, yet through such a propagation process, we can connect all of them. There may also be other articles from the same source as a current article, and we can connect these articles from the same source and make them related as well. In general, any related data can be regarded as context. What can the context of text data be used for? Context can be used to partition text data in many interesting ways. It can almost allow us to partition text data in any way that we want, and thus enables comparative analysis of text to be done across any context dimension that is interesting to us. Papers written by authors in the U.S. Enable discovery of knowledge associated with different context as needed Figure 19.3 Context leads to partitioning of text data. As a specific example, we show how some context variables enable partitioning of research papers in many different ways in Figure 19.3. The horizontal dimension of the figure shows different conference venues where the papers are published, and the vertical dimension shows the time of a publication. We can treat each paper as a separate unit; in this case, a paper ID serves as the context and each paper has its own context. We can treat all the papers published in 1998 as one group, and partition papers by the year due to the availability of time as a non-text variable. Such a partitioning would allow us to compare topics in different years. Similarly, we can partition the data based on the venues; we can group all the papers published in SIGIR and compare them with those published in KDD or ACL. This comparison is enabled by the availability of the non-text variable of the conference venue. Furthermore, we can also partition the data to obtain the papers written by authors in the U.S. by using additional context of the authors. Such a contextual view of the data would allow us to compare papers written by American authors with those written by authors in other countries. 