Sometimes, we can use topics to partition the data without involving non-text data. For example, we can obtain a set of papers about the topic "text mining," and compare them with the papers about another topic. Note that these partitions can be intersected with each other to generate even more complicated partitions. So, we may form constraints on non-text variables to create interesting contexts for partitioning text data, which can then facilitate discovery of knowledge associated with different contexts. The incorporation of non-text contextual variables enables the association of topics from text data with potentially many different contexts, generating interesting and useful patterns. For example, in comparing topics over time, we can see topical trends. Comparing topics in different contexts can also reveal differences about the two contexts. There are many interesting questions that require contextual text mining to answer. For example, to answer a question such as "What topics have been getting increasing attention recently in data mining research?" we would need to analyze text in the context of time. Is there any difference in the responses of people in different regions to an event? To answer such a question, location can be the context. What are the common research interests of two researchers? In this case, authors can be the context. Is there any difference in the research topics published by authors in the U.S. and those outside? Here, the context would include the authors and their affiliation and location. This is a case where we need to go beyond just the authors and further look at the additional information connected to the author. Is there any difference in the opinions of all the topics, expressed in one social network compared to another? In this case, the social network of authors and the topic can be a context. Are there topics in news data whose coverage is correlated with sudden changes in stock prices? Such a question can be addressed by using a time series such as stock prices as context. What issues mattered in the 2012 presidential campaign and election? Here time serves again as context. Clearly, contextual text mining can have many applications. 