Recall that in PLSA the text data are generated by first selecting a topic and then generating a word from a topic. The topics are shared by all the documents in the collection, but the selection probability (i.e., coverage of topics) is specific to a document. In CPLSA, the generation process is similar, but since we assume that we have context information (time or location) about a document, the generation of words in the document may be conditioned on the specific context of the document. Instead of assuming just one set of common topics for the collection, we assume that there may be variations of this set of topics depending on the context. For example, we might have a particular view of all the topics imposed by a particular context (such as a particular time period or a particular location), so we may have multiple sets of comparable topics that represent different views of these topics associated with different contexts. In Figure 19.4, we use a collection of blog articles about Hurricane Katrina to illustrate this idea. In such a collection, we can imagine potential topics such as government response, donation, and flooding of New Orleans. These are shown as different "themes," each represented by a word distribution. Besides these themes, we also show three potentially different views of these three themes (topics): View1 is associated with a location context (Texas) and contains Texas-specific word distributions for all the three themes shown in the figure, which may reflect how the authors in Texas talk about these topics, which presumably would be different from how the authors in Illinois talk about them, which can be represented as a different view. Similarly, View2 is associated with a time context (July 2005), and View3 is associated with a context of author occupation (a sociologist). The selection of topics when generating words in a document can also be influenced by the context of the document. For example, the authors in Texas may tend to cover one particular aspect more than another, while the authors in other locations may be different. Similarly, contexts such as the time and author occupation may also suggest a preference for certain topics. In the standard PLSA, we assume that every document has its own preference for topics; this can be regarded as a special case of CPLSA where we have taken each document ID as a context for the document. The different topic selection preferences of different contexts are illustrated at the bottom of Figure 19.4. To generate a word in document d, we would first choose a particular view of all the topics based on the context of the document. For example, the view being chosen may be the location (Texas); in such a case, we would be using the Texasspecific topics to generate the word. The next step is to decide a topic coverage, which again depends on the context. We may choose the coverage associated with the time (July 2005 all documents with July 2005 as the time context. This is very different from the PLSA where each document has its own coverage preference, which is independent of each other. The dependency (on context) introduced here enables all the text with a particular context associated to contribute to the learning of the topic coverage. Once a view of topics and a topic coverage distribution have been chosen, the rest of the generation process is exactly the same as in PLSA. That is, we will use the topic coverage and selection distribution to sample a topic, and then use the corresponding word distribution of the topic (i.e., chosen view of the topic) to generate a word. In such a generation process, each word can be potentially generated using a different view and a different topic coverage distribution depending on the contexts chosen to direct the generation process. Note that the context that determines the choice of view of a topic can be different from the context chosen to decide the topic coverage. This is illustrated in Figure 19.5 where we show that all the words in the document have now been generated by using CPLSA, which is essentially a mixture model with many component models associated with different contexts. In CPLSA, both the views of topics and the topic coverage depend on context, so it enables discovery of different variations of the same topic in different contexts (due to the dependency of a view of topics on context) and different topic coverages in different contexts (due to the dependency of topic coverage on context). Such context-dependent topic patterns can be very useful for answering various questions as we mentioned earlier. The standard PLSA can easily be seen as a special case of CPLA when we have used just one single view of topics by using the whole collection as context, and used each document ID as a context for deciding topic coverage. As a result, what we can discover using PLSA is just one single set of topics characterizing the content in the text data with no way to reveal the difference of topics covered in different contexts. The standard PLSA can only reveal the coverage of topics in each document, but cannot discover the topic coverage associated with a particular context. In contrast, CPLSA would provide more flexibility to embed the context variables as needed to enable discovery of multiple views of topics and context-specific coverage of topics, thus enriching the topical patterns that can be discovered. Since CPLSA remains a mixture model, we can still use the EM algorithm to solve the problem of parameter estimation, although the number of parameters to be estimated would be significantly larger than PLSA. Thus, theoretically speaking, CPLSA can allow us to discover any context-specific topics and topic coverage distributions. However, in reality, due to the inevitable sparsity of data, we must restrict the space of the context variables to control the complexity of the model. Once estimated, the parameters of CPLSA would naturally contain context variables, including particularly many conditional probabilities of topics (given a certain context) The common theme indicates that "United Nations" is involved in both wars Collection-specific themes indicate different roles of "United Nations" in the two wars which are precisely what we hope to discover in contextual text mining. For details of CPLSA, readers can refer to . We now show some sample results of CPLSA. First, in Figure 19.6, we show results from comparing two sets of news articles about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, respectively, including high probability words in both common topics and collection-specific topics. In this case, the context is the topic and leads to a partitioning of news articles into two sets corresponding to these two wars, and CPLSA degenerates to a simpler cross-collection mixture model . 