In this section, we discuss how to mine text data with a social network as context. The context of a text article can sometimes form a network; the authors of research articles might form collaboration networks. Similarly, authors of social media content might form social networks via a social network platform such as Twitter or Facebook. For example, in Twitter, people might follow each other, whereas in Facebook, people might be friends. Such a network context can indirectly connect the content written by the authors involved in a network. Similarly, locations associated with text can also be connected to form geographical networks, which again add indirect connections between text data that would otherwise not be directly connected. In general, you can imagine the metadata of the text data can easily form a network if we can identify some relations among the metadata. When we have network context available, it offers an interesting opportunity to jointly analyze text and its associated network context. The benefit of such a joint analysis is as follows. First, we can use a network to impose some constraints on topics of text. For example, it's reasonable to assume that authors connected in collaboration networks tend to write about similar topics. Such heuristics can be used to guide us in analyzing topics. Second, text can also help characterize the content associated with each subnetwork. For example, the difference between the opinions expressed in two subnetworks can be revealed by doing this type of joint analysis. We now introduce a specific technique for analysis of text with network as context called a network supervised topic model. The general idea of such a model is illustrated in Figure 19.10. First, we can view any generative model (e.g., PLSA) as defining an optimization problem where the variables are the parameters (denoted by here in the figure), and the objective function is the likelihood function. From the perspective of mining text data, the estimated parameter values * can be regarded as the output of the mining algorithm based on the model. With this view, we can then potentially use any context information of the text data to impose constraints or preferences on the parameters so as to incorporate domain 