In the previous chapters, we introduced many specific algorithms and techniques for managing and analyzing text data. These algorithms are currently implemented in separate toolkits, but from an application perspective, it would be beneficial to develop a unified system that can support potentially all these algorithms in a general way so that it can be used in many different applications. In this chapter, we discuss how we can model these different algorithms as operators in a unified analysis framework and potentially develop a general system to implement such a framework. From a user's perspective, we distinguished (at a very high level) two related application tasks: text data access and text analysis. The goal of text data access is to enable users to identify and obtain the most useful text data relevant to an application problem, which is often achieved through the support of a search engine. The current search engines primarily support querying, which is, however, only one way to help users find relevant documents. Browsing is another useful form of information access where the users can take the initiative to navigate through a structure into relevant information. The support of browsing is generally achieved by adding structures to text data by using clustering, categorization, or topic analysis. In addition to supporting querying and browsing, a search engine can also support recommendation of information, thus providing multi-mode information access through both pull mode (querying and browsing) and push mode (recommendation). Since text data are created by humans and often meant to be consumed by humans-and the current NLP techniques are still not mature enough for computers to have accurate understanding of text data-it is generally necessary to involve 446 Chapter 20 Toward A Unified System for Text Management and Analysis humans in any text data application. In this sense, a text data management and analysis system should serve as an intelligent assistant for users requiring information, or the analysts that would like to leverage text data for intelligence to optimize decision making. Thus, it is quite important to optimize the collaboration of humans and machines. This means that we should take advantage of a computer's ability to handle large amounts of text data while exploiting humans' expertise in detailed language understanding and assessing knowledge for decision making. Supporting an interactive process to engage users in a "dialogue" with the intelligent text information system is generally beneficial as it enables the users and system to have more communications between each other and assist each other to work together toward accomplishing the common goal of solving a user's problem by analyzing text data. Looking at the problem in this way, we can easily see the possibility of dividing the work between a human user and a machine in different ways. At one extreme, we would mostly rely on users to complete access and analysis tasks, and have the computer to do only the support that the computer can robustly provide. This is the current scenario when people use a search engine to perform mostly manual text mining, as shown in Figure 20.1. For example, we can all use a web search engine to help us get access to the most relevant information buried in the large amounts of text data on the Web, and then read all the relevant information, which is essentially manual text mining and analysis. In such a scenario, the search engine 