Chapter 18 discusses sentiment analysis and opinion mining. In order to discover positive and negative sentiment topics, we set k = 2 and run a topic analysis method. What is an issue with this idea? 17.8. We mentioned that PLSA is a discriminative model and LDA is a generative model. Discuss how these differences affect: 17.9. An alternative topic analysis evaluation scheme is to hold out a certain number of words in the vocabulary from some documents. Explain how this can be used to evaluate topic models. Does this evaluate the topic-document distributions, topic-word distributions, or both? Exercises 387 17.10. Supervised LDA (sLDA) is a probabilistic model over labeled documents, where each document contains some real-valued response variable. For example, if the dataset is movie reviews, the response variable could be the average rating. Explain what additional knowledge sLDA can discover in comparison to LDA or PLSA aside from predicting response variables for a new document. 410 Chapter 18 Opinion Mining and Sentiment Analysis useful for determining whether a sentence (e.g.) is positive or negative. Based on the useful features, we can either adjust the algorithm or try to fine-tune the feature set. From a topic analysis viewpoint, we would like to ensure that the topics are coherent and have a believable coverage and distribution over the documents in the dataset. We mentioned that corpus log likelihood is a way to test how well the model fits to the data. While this evaluation metric doesn't always agree with human judges [Chang et al. 2009], it does serve as a sanity check or proxy for true usefulness. Additionally, we can test the effectiveness of adding opinion mining and sentiment analysis to an existing system by the method discussed in Chapter 13. That is, we can compare the system's performance before sentiment analysis, and then compare its performance afterwards. If the system performs statistically significantly better under some evaluation metric relevant to the task at hand, then the sentiment analysis is a definitive improvement. 