As a result, most human knowledge is encoded in the form of text data. For example, scientific knowledge almost exclusively exists in scientific literature, while technical manuals contain detailed explanations of how to operate devices. Text is by far the most common type of information encountered by people. Indeed, most of the information a person produces and consumes daily is in text form. Chapter 1 Introduction 5 nificant progress has been made in this area in recent years, and specialized text mining tools have now been widely used in many application domains. In contrast to structured data, which conform to well-defined schemas and are thus relatively easy for computers to handle, text has less explicit structure, so the development of intelligent software tools discussed above requires computer processing to understand the content encoded in text. The current technology of natural language processing has not yet reached a point to enable a computer to precisely understand natural language text (a main reason why humans often should be involved in the loop), but a wide range of statistical and heuristic approaches to management and analysis of text data have been developed over the past few decades. They are usually very robust and can be applied to analyze and manage text data in any natural language, and about any topic. This book intends to provide a systematic introduction to many of these approaches, with an emphasis on covering the most useful knowledge and skills required to build a variety of practically useful text information systems. The two services discussed above (i.e., text retrieval and text mining) conceptually correspond to the two natural steps in the process of analyzing any "big text data" as shown in Figure 1.1. While the raw text data may be large, a specific application often requires only a small amount of most relevant text data, thus conceptually, the very first step in any application should be to identify the relevant text data to a particular application or decision-making problem and avoid the unnecessary processing of large amounts of non-relevant text data. This first step of converting the raw big text data into much smaller, but highly relevant text data is often accomplished by techniques of text retrieval with help from users (e.g., users may use multiple queries to collect all the relevant text data for a decision problem). In this first step, the main goal is to connect users (or applications) with the most relevant text data. Once we obtain a small set of most relevant text data, we would need to further analyze the text data to help users digest the content and knowledge in the text data. This is the text mining step where the goal is to further discover knowledge and patterns from text data so as to support a user's task. Furthermore, due to the need for assessing trustworthiness of any discovered knowledge, users generally have a need to go back to the original raw text data to obtain appropriate context for interpreting the discovered knowledge and verify the trustworthiness of the knowledge, hence a search engine system, which is primarily useful for text access, also has to be available in any text-based decision-support system for supporting knowledge provenance. The two steps are thus conceptually interleaved, and a full-fledged intelligent text information system must integrate both in a unified framework. It is worth pointing out that put in the context of "big data," text data is very different from other kinds of data because it is generally produced directly by humans and often also meant to be consumed by humans as well. In contrast, other data tend to be machine-generated data (e.g., data collected by using all kinds of physical sensors). Since humans can understand text data far better than computers can, involvement of humans in the process of mining and analyzing text data is absolutely crucial (much more necessary than in other big data applications), and how to optimally divide the work between humans and machines so as to optimize the collaboration between humans and machines and maximize their "combined intelligence" with minimum human effort is a general challenge in all applications of text data management and analysis. The two steps discussed above can be regarded as two different ways for a text information system to assist humans: information retrieval systems assist users in finding from a large collection of text data the most relevant text data that are actually needed for solving a specific application problem, thus effectively turning big raw text data into much smaller relevant text data that can be more easily processed by humans, while text mining application systems can assist users in analyzing patterns in text data to extract and discover useful actionable knowledge directly useful for task completion or decision making, thus providing more direct task support for users. With this view, we partition the techniques covered in the book into two parts to match the two steps shown in Figure 1.1, which are then followed by one chapter to discuss how all the techniques may be integrated in a unified text information system. The book attempts to provide a complete coverage of all the major concepts, techniques, and ideas in information retrieval and text data mining from a practical viewpoint. It includes many hands-on exercises designed with a companion software toolkit META to help readers learn how to apply techniques of information 1.1 Functions of Text Information Systems 7 retrieval and text mining to real-world text data and learn how to experiment with and improve some of the algorithms for interesting application tasks. This book can be used as a textbook for computer science undergraduates and graduates, library and information scientists, or as a reference book for practitioners working on relevant application problems in analyzing and managing text data. 