In this section, we look at various ways to measure the central tendency of data. Suppose that we have some attribute X, like salary, which has been recorded for a set of objects. Let x 1 , x 2 , . . . , x N be the set of N observed values or observations for X. Here, these values may also be referred to as the data set (for X). If we were to plot the observations for salary, where would most of the values fall? This gives us an idea of the central tendency of the data. Measures of central tendency include the mean, median, mode, and midrange. The most common and effective numeric measure of the "center" of a set of data is the (arithmetic) mean. Let x 1 , x 2 , . . . , x N be a set of N values or observations, such as for some numeric attribute X, like salary. The mean of this set of values is This corresponds to the built-in aggregate function, average (avg() in SQL), provided in relational database systems. Example 2.6 Mean. Suppose we have the following values for salary (in thousands of dollars), shown in increasing order: 30,36,47,50,52,52,56,60,63,70,70,110 Thus, the mean salary is $58,000. Sometimes, each value x i in a set may be associated with a weight w i for i = 1, . . . , N . The weights reflect the significance, importance, or occurrence frequency attached to their respective values. In this case, we can computē w 1 x 1 + w 2 x 2 + · · · + w N x N w 1 + w 2 + · · · + w N . (2.2) This is called the weighted arithmetic mean or the weighted average. Although the mean is the singlemost useful quantity for describing a data set, it is not always the best way of measuring the center of the data. A major problem with the mean is its sensitivity to extreme (e.g., outlier) values. Even a small number of extreme values can corrupt the mean. For example, the mean salary at a company may be substantially pushed up by that of a few highly paid managers. Similarly, the mean score of a class in an exam could be pulled down quite a bit by a few very low scores. To offset the effect caused by a small number of extreme values, we can instead use the trimmed mean, which is the mean obtained after chopping off values at the high and low extremes. For example, we can sort the values observed for salary and remove the top and bottom 2% before computing the mean. We should avoid trimming too large a portion (such as 20%) at both ends, as this can result in the loss of valuable information. For skewed (asymmetric) data, a better measure of the center of data is the median, which is the middle value in a set of ordered data values. It is the value that separates the higher half of a data set from the lower half. In probability and statistics, the median generally applies to numeric data; however, we may extend the concept to ordinal data. Suppose that a given data set of N values for an attribute X is sorted in increasing order. If N is odd, then the median is the middle value of the ordered set. If N is even, then the median is not unique; it is the two middlemost values and any value in between. If X is a numeric attribute in this case, by convention, the median is taken as the average of the two middlemost values. Example 2.7 Median. Let's find the median of the data from Example 2.6. The data are already sorted in increasing order. There is an even number of observations (i.e., 12); therefore, the median is not unique. It can be any value within the two middlemost values of 52 and 56 (that is, within the sixth and seventh values in the list). By convention, we assign the average of the two middlemost values as the median; that is, 52+56 2 = 108 2 = 54. Thus, the median is $54,000. Suppose that we had only the first 11 values in the list. Given an odd number of values, the median is the middlemost value. This is the sixth value in this list, which has a value of $52,000. The median is expensive to compute when we have a large number of observations. For numeric attributes, however, we can easily approximate the value. Assume that data are grouped in intervals according to their x i data values and that the frequency (i.e., number of data values) of each interval is known. For example, employees may be grouped according to their annual salary in intervals such as $10-20,000, $20-30,000, and so on. Let the interval that contains the median frequency be the median interval. We can approximate the median of the entire data set (e.g., the median salary) by interpolation using the formula where L 1 is the lower boundary of the median interval, N is the number of values in the entire data set, freq l is the sum of the frequencies of all of the intervals that are lower than the median interval, freq median is the frequency of the median interval, and width is the width of the median interval. The mode is another measure of central tendency. The mode for a set of data is the value that occurs most frequently in the set. Therefore, it can be determined for qualitative and quantitative attributes. It is possible for the greatest frequency to correspond to several different values, which results in more than one mode. Data sets with one, two, or three modes are respectively called unimodal, bimodal, and trimodal. In general, a data set with two or more modes is multimodal. At the other extreme, if each data value occurs only once, then there is no mode. Example 2.8 Mode. The data from Example 2.6 are bimodal. The two modes are $52,000 and $70,000. For unimodal numeric data that are moderately skewed (asymmetrical), we have the following empirical relation: ( 2.4) This implies that the mode for unimodal frequency curves that are moderately skewed can easily be approximated if the mean and median values are known. The midrange can also be used to assess the central tendency of a numeric data set. It is the average of the largest and smallest values in the set. This measure is easy to compute using the SQL aggregate functions, max() and min(). Example 2.9 Midrange. The midrange of the data of Example 2.6 is 30,000+110,000 2 = $70,000. In a unimodal frequency curve with perfect symmetric data distribution, the mean, median, and mode are all at the same center value, as shown in Figure 2.1(a). Data in most real applications are not symmetric. They may instead be either positively skewed, where the mode occurs at a value that is smaller than the median (  