To start off, let's study the range, quantiles, quartiles, percentiles, and the interquartile range as measures of data dispersion. Let x 1 , x 2 , . . . , x N be a set of observations for some numeric attribute, X. The range of the set is the difference between the largest (max()) and smallest (min()) values. Suppose that the data for attribute X are sorted in increasing numeric order. Imagine that we can pick certain data points so as to split the data distribution into equal-size consecutive sets, as in Figure 2.2. These data points are called quantiles. Quantiles are points taken at regular intervals of a data distribution, dividing it into essentially equalsize consecutive sets. (We say "essentially" because there may not be data values of X that divide the data into exactly equal-sized subsets. For readability, we will refer to them as equal.) The kth q-quantile for a given data distribution is the value x such that at most k/q of the data values are less than x and at most (q − k)/q of the data values are more than x, where k is an integer such that 0 < k < q. There are q − 1 q-quantiles. The 2-quantile is the data point dividing the lower and upper halves of the data distribution. It corresponds to the median. The 4-quantiles are the three data points that split the data distribution into four equal parts; each part represents one-fourth of the data distribution. They are more commonly referred to as quartiles. The 100-quantiles are more commonly referred to as percentiles; they divide the data distribution into 100 equal-sized consecutive sets. The median, quartiles, and percentiles are the most widely used forms of quantiles. The quartiles give an indication of a distribution's center, spread, and shape. The first quartile, denoted by Q 1 , is the 25th percentile. It cuts off the lowest 25% of the data. The third quartile, denoted by Q 3 , is the 75th percentile-it cuts off the lowest 75% (or highest 25%) of the data. The second quartile is the 50th percentile. As the median, it gives the center of the data distribution. The distance between the first and third quartiles is a simple measure of spread that gives the range covered by the middle half of the data. This distance is called the interquartile range (IQR) and is defined as (2.5) Example 2.10 Interquartile range. The quartiles are the three values that split the sorted data set into four equal parts. The data of Example 2.6 contain 12 observations, already sorted in increasing order. Thus, the quartiles for this data are the third, sixth, and ninth values, respectively, in the sorted list. Therefore, Q 1 = $47,000 and Q 3 is $63,000. Thus, the interquartile range is IQR = 63 − 47 = $16,000. (Note that the sixth value is a median, $52,000, although this data set has two medians since the number of data values is even.) 