No single numeric measure of spread (e.g., IQR) is very useful for describing skewed distributions. Have a look at the symmetric and skewed data distributions of Figure 2.1. In the symmetric distribution, the median (and other measures of central tendency) splits the data into equal-size halves. This does not occur for skewed distributions. Therefore, it is more informative to also provide the two quartiles Q 1 and Q 3 , along with the median. A common rule of thumb for identifying suspected outliers is to single out values falling at least 1.5 × IQR above the third quartile or below the first quartile. Because Q 1 , the median, and Q 3 together contain no information about the endpoints (e.g., tails) of the data, a fuller summary of the shape of a distribution can be obtained by providing the lowest and highest data values as well. This is known as the five-number summary. The five-number summary of a distribution consists of the median (Q 2 ), the quartiles Q 1 and Q 3 , and the smallest and largest individual observations, written in the order of Minimum, Q 1 , Median, Q 3 , Maximum. Boxplots are a popular way of visualizing a distribution. A boxplot incorporates the five-number summary as follows: Typically, the ends of the box are at the quartiles so that the box length is the interquartile range. The median is marked by a line within the box. Two lines (called whiskers) outside the box extend to the smallest (Minimum) and largest (Maximum) observations. When dealing with a moderate number of observations, it is worthwhile to plot potential outliers individually. To do this in a boxplot, the whiskers are extended to the extreme low and high observations only if these values are less than 1.5 × IQR beyond the quartiles. Otherwise, the whiskers terminate at the most extreme observations occurring within 1.5 × IQR of the quartiles. The remaining cases are plotted individually. Boxplots can be used in the comparisons of several sets of compatible data. Example 2.11 Boxplot. Figure 2.3 shows boxplots for unit price data for items sold at four branches of AllElectronics during a given time period. For branch 1, we see that the median price of items sold is $80, Q 1 is $60, and Q 3 is $100. Notice that two outlying observations for this branch were plotted individually, as their values of 175 and 202 are more than 1.5 times the IQR here of 40. Boxplots can be computed in O(n log n) time. Approximate boxplots can be computed in linear or sublinear time depending on the quality guarantee required. 