A quantile-quantile plot, or q-q plot, graphs the quantiles of one univariate distribution against the corresponding quantiles of another. It is a powerful visualization tool in that it allows the user to view whether there is a shift in going from one distribution to another. Suppose that we have two sets of observations for the attribute or variable unit price, taken from two different branch locations. Let x 1 , . . . , x N be the data from the first branch, and y 1 , . . . , y M be the data from the second, where each data set is sorted in increasing order. If M = N (i.e., the number of points in each set is the same), then we simply plot y i against x i , where y i and x i are both (i − 0.5)/N quantiles of their respective data sets. If M < N (i.e., the second branch has fewer observations than the first), there can be only M points on the q-q plot. Here, y i is the (i − 0.5)/M quantile of the y   Figure 2.5 A q-q plot for unit price data from two AllElectronics branches. data, which is plotted against the (i − 0.5)/M quantile of the x data. This computation typically involves interpolation. Example 2.14 Quantile-quantile plot. Figure 2.5 shows a quantile-quantile plot for unit price data of items sold at two branches of AllElectronics during a given time period. Each point corresponds to the same quantile for each data set and shows the unit price of items sold at branch 1 versus branch 2 for that quantile. (To aid in comparison, the straight line represents the case where, for each given quantile, the unit price at each branch is the same. The darker points correspond to the data for Q 1 , the median, and Q 3 , respectively.) We see, for example, that at Q 1 , the unit price of items sold at branch 1 was slightly less than that at branch 2. In other words, 25% of items sold at branch 1 were less than or equal to $60, while 25% of items sold at branch 2 were less than or equal to $64. At the 50th percentile (marked by the median, which is also Q 2 ), we see that 50% of items sold at branch 1 were less than $78, while 50% of items at branch 2 were less than $85. In general, we note that there is a shift in the distribution of branch 1 with respect to branch 2 in that the unit prices of items sold at branch 1 tend to be lower than those at branch 2. 