In Section 2.2, we looked at ways of studying the central tendency, dispersion, and spread of observed values for some attribute X. Our objects there were one-dimensional, that is, described by a single attribute. In this section, we talk about objects described by multiple attributes. Therefore, we need a change in notation. Suppose that we have n objects (e.g., persons, items, or courses) described by p attributes (also called measurements or features, such as age, height, weight, or gender). The objects are x 1 = (x 11 , x 12 , . . . , x 1p ), x 2 = (x 21 , x 22 , . . . , x 2p ), and so on, where x ij is the value for object x i of the jth attribute. For brevity, we hereafter refer to object x i as object i. The objects may be tuples in a relational database, and are also referred to as data samples or feature vectors. Main memory-based clustering and nearest-neighbor algorithms typically operate on either of the following two data structures: Data matrix (or object-by-attribute structure): This structure stores the n data objects in the form of a relational table, or n-by-p matrix (n objects ×p attributes): · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · x i1 · · · x if · · · x ip · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · x n1 · · · x nf · · · x np        . (2.8) Each row corresponds to an object. As part of our notation, we may use f to index through the p attributes. Dissimilarity matrix (or object-by-object structure): This structure stores a collection of proximities that are available for all pairs of n objects. It is often represented by an n-by-n table: where d(i, j) is the measured dissimilarity or "difference" between objects i and j. In general, d(i, j) is a non-negative number that is close to 0 when objects i and j are highly similar or "near" each other, and becomes larger the more they differ. Note that d(i, i) = 0; that is, the difference between an object and itself is 0. Furthermore,  where sim(i, j) is the similarity between objects i and j. Throughout the rest of this chapter, we will also comment on measures of similarity. A data matrix is made up of two entities or "things," namely rows (for objects) and columns (for attributes). Therefore, the data matrix is often called a two-mode matrix. The dissimilarity matrix contains one kind of entity (dissimilarities) and so is called a one-mode matrix. Many clustering and nearest-neighbor algorithms operate on a dissimilarity matrix. Data in the form of a data matrix can be transformed into a dissimilarity matrix before applying such algorithms. 