Let's look at dissimilarity and similarity measures for objects described by either symmetric or asymmetric binary attributes. Recall that a binary attribute has only one of two states: 0 and 1, where 0 means that the attribute is absent, and 1 means that it is present (Section 2.1.3). Given the attribute smoker describing a patient, for instance, 1 indicates that the patient smokes, while 0 indicates that the patient does not. Treating binary attributes as if they are numeric can be misleading. Therefore, methods specific to binary data are necessary for computing dissimilarity. "So, how can we compute the dissimilarity between two binary attributes?" One approach involves computing a dissimilarity matrix from the given binary data. If all binary attributes are thought of as having the same weight, we have the 2 × 2 contingency table of Table 2.3, where q is the number of attributes that equal 1 for both objects i and j, r is the number of attributes that equal 1 for object i but equal 0 for object j, s is the number of attributes that equal 0 for object i but equal 1 for object j, and t is the number of attributes that equal 0 for both objects i and j. The total number of attributes is p, where p = q + r + s + t. Recall that for symmetric binary attributes, each state is equally valuable. Dissimilarity that is based on symmetric binary attributes is called symmetric binary dissimilarity. If objects i and j are described by symmetric binary attributes, then the For asymmetric binary attributes, the two states are not equally important, such as the positive (1) and negative (0) outcomes of a disease test. Given two asymmetric binary attributes, the agreement of two 1s (a positive match) is then considered more significant than that of two 0s (a negative match). Therefore, such binary attributes are often considered "monary" (having one state). The dissimilarity based on these attributes is called asymmetric binary dissimilarity, where the number of negative matches, t, is considered unimportant and is thus ignored in the following computation: (2.14) Complementarily, we can measure the difference between two binary attributes based on the notion of similarity instead of dissimilarity. For example, the asymmetric binary similarity between the objects i and j can be computed as The coefficient sim(i, j) of Eq. (2.15) is called the Jaccard coefficient and is popularly referenced in the literature. When both symmetric and asymmetric binary attributes occur in the same data set, the mixed attributes approach described in Section 2.4.6 can be applied. Example 2.18 Dissimilarity between binary attributes. Suppose that a patient record table (Table 2.4) contains the attributes name, gender, fever, cough, test-1, test-2, test-3, and test-4, where name is an object identifier, gender is a symmetric attribute, and the remaining attributes are asymmetric binary. For asymmetric attribute values, let the values Y (yes) and P (positive) be set to 1, and the value N (no or negative) be set to 0. Suppose that the distance between objects (patients) is computed based only on the asymmetric attributes. According to Eq. (2.14), the distance between each pair of the three patients-Jack, Mary, and Jim-is These measurements suggest that Jim and Mary are unlikely to have a similar disease because they have the highest dissimilarity value among the three pairs. Of the three patients, Jack and Mary are the most likely to have a similar disease. 