Methods for descriptive data summarization have been studied in the statistics literature long before the onset of computers. Imagine that you are the Director of Customer Relationships at AllElectronics, and you have five managers working for you. You would like to organize all the company's customers into five groups so that each group can be assigned to a different manager. Strategically, you would like that the customers in each group are as similar as possible. Moreover, two given customers having very different business patterns should not be placed in the same group. Your intention behind this business strategy is to develop customer relationship campaigns that specifically target each group, based on common features shared by the customers per group. What kind of data mining techniques can help you to accomplish this task? Unlike in classification, the class label (or group ID) of each customer is unknown. You need to discover these groupings. Given a large number of customers and many attributes describing customer profiles, it can be very costly or even infeasible to have a human study the data and manually come up with a way to partition the customers into strategic groups. You need a clustering tool to help. Clustering is the process of grouping a set of data objects into multiple groups or clusters so that objects within a cluster have high similarity, but are very dissimilar to objects in other clusters. Dissimilarities and similarities are assessed based on the attribute values describing the objects and often involve distance measures. 1 Clustering as a data mining tool has its roots in many application areas such as biology, security, business intelligence, and Web search. This chapter presents the basic concepts and methods of cluster analysis. In Section 10.1, we introduce the topic and study the requirements of clustering methods for massive amounts of data and various applications. You will learn several basic clustering techniques, organized into the following categories: partitioning methods (Section 10.2), hierarchical methods (Section 10.3), density-based methods (Section 10.4), and grid-based methods (Section 10.5). In Section 10.6, we briefly discuss how to evaluate clustering methods. A discussion of advanced methods of clustering is reserved for Chapter 11. 