Whether using an agglomerative method or a divisive method, a core need is to measure the distance between two clusters, where each cluster is generally a set of objects. Four widely used measures for distance between clusters are as follows, where |p − p | is the distance between two objects or points, p and p ; m i is the mean for cluster, C i ; and n i is the number of objects in C i . They are also known as linkage measures. When an algorithm uses the minimum distance, d min (C i , C j ), to measure the distance between clusters, it is sometimes called a nearest-neighbor clustering algorithm. Moreover, if the clustering process is terminated when the distance between nearest clusters exceeds a user-defined threshold, it is called a single-linkage algorithm. If we view the data points as nodes of a graph, with edges forming a path between the nodes in a cluster, then the merging of two clusters, C i and C j , corresponds to adding an edge between the nearest pair of nodes in C i and C j . Because edges linking clusters always go between distinct clusters, the resulting graph will generate a tree. Thus, an agglomerative hierarchical clustering algorithm that uses the minimum distance measure is also called a minimal spanning tree algorithm, where a spanning tree of a graph is a tree that connects all vertices, and a minimal spanning tree is the one with the least sum of edge weights. When an algorithm uses the maximum distance, d max (C i , C j ), to measure the distance between clusters, it is sometimes called a farthest-neighbor clustering algorithm. If the clustering process is terminated when the maximum distance between nearest clusters exceeds a user-defined threshold, it is called a complete-linkage algorithm. By viewing data points as nodes of a graph, with edges linking nodes, we can think of each cluster as a complete subgraph, that is, with edges connecting all the nodes in the clusters. The distance between two clusters is determined by the most distant nodes in the two clusters. Farthest-neighbor algorithms tend to minimize the increase in diameter of the clusters at each iteration. If the true clusters are rather compact and approximately equal size, the method will produce high-quality clusters. Otherwise, the clusters produced can be meaningless. The previous minimum and maximum measures represent two extremes in measuring the distance between clusters. They tend to be overly sensitive to outliers or noisy data. The use of mean or average distance is a compromise between the minimum and maximum distances and overcomes the outlier sensitivity problem. Whereas the mean distance is the simplest to compute, the average distance is advantageous in that it can handle categoric as well as numeric data. The computation of the mean vector for categoric data can be difficult or impossible to define. Example 10.4 Single versus complete linkages. Let us apply hierarchical clustering to the data set of Figure 10.8(a). Figure 10.8(b) shows the dendrogram using single linkage. Figure 10.8(c) shows the case using complete linkage, where the edges between clusters {A, B, J, H} and {C, D, G, F, E} are omitted for ease of presentation. This example shows that by using single linkages we can find hierarchical clusters defined by local proximity, whereas complete linkage tends to find clusters opting for global closeness. There are variations of the four essential linkage measures just discussed. For example, we can measure the distance between two clusters by the distance between the centroids (i.e., the central objects) of the clusters. 