Density estimation is a core issue in density-based clustering methods. DENCLUE (DENsity-based CLUstEring) is a clustering method based on a set of density distribution functions. We first give some background on density estimation, and then describe the DENCLUE algorithm. In probability and statistics, density estimation is the estimation of an unobservable underlying probability density function based on a set of observed data. In the context of density-based clustering, the unobservable underlying probability density function is the true distribution of the population of all possible objects to be analyzed. The observed data set is regarded as a random sample from that population. The subtlety in density estimation in DBSCAN and OPTICS: Increasing the neighborhood radius slightly from 1 to 2 results in a much higher density. In DBSCAN and OPTICS, density is calculated by counting the number of objects in a neighborhood defined by a radius parameter, . Such density estimates can be highly sensitive to the radius value used. For example, in Figure 10.18, the density changes significantly as the radius increases by a small amount. To overcome this problem, kernel density estimation can be used, which is a nonparametric density estimation approach from statistics. The general idea behind kernel density estimation is simple. We treat an observed object as an indicator of high-probability density in the surrounding region. The probability density at a point depends on the distances from this point to the observed objects. Formally, let x 1 , . . . , x n be an independent and identically distributed sample of a random variable f . The kernel density approximation of the probability density function iŝ where K () is a kernel and h is the bandwidth serving as a smoothing parameter. A kernel can be regarded as a function modeling the influence of a sample point within its neighborhood. Technically, a kernel K () is a non-negative real-valued integrable function that should satisfy two requirements: for all values of u. A frequently used kernel is a standard Gaussian function with a mean of 0 and a variance of 1: DENCLUE uses a Gaussian kernel to estimate density based on the given set of objects to be clustered. A point x * is called a density attractor if it is a local maximum of the estimated density function. To avoid trivial local maximum points, DENCLUE uses a noise threshold, ξ , and only considers those density attractors x * such thatf (x * ) ≥ ξ . These nontrivial density attractors are the centers of clusters. Objects under analysis are assigned to clusters through density attractors using a stepwise hill-climbing procedure. For an object, x, the hill-climbing procedure starts from x and is guided by the gradient of the estimated density function. That is, the density attractor for x is computed as where δ is a parameter to control the speed of convergence, and . (10.24) The hill-climbing procedure stops at step k > 0 iff (x k+1 ) <f (x k ), and assigns x to the density attractor x * = x k . An object x is an outlier or noise if it converges in the hillclimbing procedure to a local maximum x * withf (x * ) < ξ . A cluster in DENCLUE is a set of density attractors X and a set of input objects C such that each object in C is assigned to a density attractor in X, and there exists a path between every pair of density attractors where the density is above ξ . By using multiple density attractors connected by paths, DENCLUE can find clusters of arbitrary shape. DENCLUE has several advantages. It can be regarded as a generalization of several well-known clustering methods such as single-linkage approaches and DBSCAN. Moreover, DENCLUE is invariant against noise. The kernel density estimation can effectively reduce the influence of noise by uniformly distributing noise into the input data. 