Clustering tendency assessment determines whether a given data set has a non-random structure, which may lead to meaningful clusters. Consider a data set that does not have any non-random structure, such as a set of uniformly distributed points in a data space. Even though a clustering algorithm may return clusters for the data, those clusters are random and are not meaningful. Example 10.9 Clustering requires nonuniform distribution of data. Figure 10.21 shows a data set that is uniformly distributed in 2-D data space. Although a clustering algorithm may still artificially partition the points into groups, the groups will unlikely mean anything significant to the application due to the uniform distribution of the data. "How can we assess the clustering tendency of a data set?" Intuitively, we can try to measure the probability that the data set is generated by a uniform data distribution. This can be achieved using statistical tests for spatial randomness. To illustrate this idea, let's look at a simple yet effective statistic called the Hopkins Statistic. The Hopkins Statistic is a spatial statistic that tests the spatial randomness of a variable as distributed in a space. Given a data set, D, which is regarded as a sample of Figure 10.21 A data set that is uniformly distributed in the data space. a random variable, o, we want to determine how far away o is from being uniformly distributed in the data space. We calculate the Hopkins Statistic as follows: 1. Sample n points, p 1 , . . . , p n , uniformly from D. That is, each point in D has the same probability of being included in this sample. For each point, p i , we find the nearest neighbor of p i (1 ≤ i ≤ n) in D, and let x i be the distance between p i and its nearest neighbor in D. That is, (10.25) 2. Sample n points, q 1 , . . . , q n , uniformly from D. For each q i (1 ≤ i ≤ n), we find the nearest neighbor of q i in D − {q i }, and let y i be the distance between q i and its nearest neighbor in D − {q i }. That is,  "What does the Hopkins Statistic tell us about how likely data set D follows a uniform distribution in the data space?" If D were uniformly distributed, then n i=1 y i and n i=1 x i would be close to each other, and thus H would be about 0.5. However, if D were highly skewed, then n i=1 y i would be substantially smaller than n i=1 x i in expectation, and thus H would be close to 0. Our null hypothesis is the homogeneous hypothesis-that D is uniformly distributed and thus contains no meaningful clusters. The nonhomogeneous hypothesis (i.e., that D is not uniformly distributed and thus contains clusters) is the alternative hypothesis. We can conduct the Hopkins Statistic test iteratively, using 0.5 as the threshold to reject the alternative hypothesis. That is, if H > 0.5, then it is unlikely that D has statistically significant clusters. 