When the ground truth is available, we can compare it with a clustering to assess the clustering. Thus, the core task in extrinsic methods is to assign a score, Q(C, C g ), to a clustering, C, given the ground truth, C g . Whether an extrinsic method is effective largely depends on the measure, Q, it uses. In general, a measure Q on clustering quality is effective if it satisfies the following four essential criteria: Cluster homogeneity. This requires that the more pure the clusters in a clustering are, the better the clustering. Suppose that ground truth says that the objects in a data set, D, can belong to categories L 1 , . . . , L n . Consider clustering, C 1 , wherein a cluster C ∈ C 1 contains objects from two categories L i , L j (1 ≤ i < j ≤ n). Also consider clustering C 2 , which is identical to C 1 except that C 2 is split into two clusters containing the objects in L i and L j , respectively. A clustering quality measure, Q, respecting cluster homogeneity should give a higher score to C 2 than C 1 , that is, Cluster completeness. This is the counterpart of cluster homogeneity. Cluster completeness requires that for a clustering, if any two objects belong to the same category according to ground truth, then they should be assigned to the same cluster. Cluster completeness requires that a clustering should assign objects belonging to the same category (according to ground truth) to the same cluster. Consider clustering C 1 , which contains clusters C 1 and C 2 , of which the members belong to the same category according to ground truth. Let clustering C 2 be identical to C 1 except that C 1 and C 2 are merged into one cluster in C 2 . Then, a clustering quality measure, Q, respecting cluster completeness should give a higher score to C 2 , that is, Q(C 2 , C g ) > Q(C 1 , C g ). Rag bag. In many practical scenarios, there is often a "rag bag" category containing objects that cannot be merged with other objects. Such a category is often called "miscellaneous," "other," and so on. The rag bag criterion states that putting a heterogeneous object into a pure cluster should be penalized more than putting it into a rag bag. Consider a clustering C 1 and a cluster C ∈ C 1 such that all objects in C except for one, denoted by o, belong to the same category according to ground truth. Consider a clustering C 2 identical to C 1 except that o is assigned to a cluster C = C in C 2 such that C contains objects from various categories according to ground truth, and thus is noisy. In other words, C in C 2 is a rag bag. Then, a clustering quality measure Q respecting the rag bag criterion should give a higher score to C 2 , that is, Q(C 2 , C g ) > Q(C 1 , C g ). 