Given a set of objects, X = {x 1 , . . . , x n }, a fuzzy set S is a subset of X that allows each object in X to have a membership degree between 0 and 1. Formally, a fuzzy set, S, can be modeled as a function, F S :X → [0, 1]. Example 11.3 Fuzzy set. The more digital camera units that are sold, the more popular the camera is. In AllElectronics, we can use the following formula to compute the degree of popularity of a digital camera We can apply the fuzzy set idea on clusters. That is, given a set of objects, a cluster is a fuzzy set of objects. Such a cluster is called a fuzzy cluster. Consequently, a clustering contains multiple fuzzy clusters. Formally, given a set of objects, o 1 , . . . , o n , a fuzzy clustering of k fuzzy clusters, C 1 , . . . , C k , can be represented using a partition matrix, M = [w ij ] (1 ≤ i ≤ n, 1 ≤ j ≤ k), where w ij is the membership degree of o i in fuzzy cluster C j . The partition matrix should satisfy the following three requirements: For each object, o i , and cluster, C j , 0 ≤ w ij ≤ 1. This requirement enforces that a fuzzy cluster is a fuzzy set. For each object, o i , k j=1 w ij = 1. This requirement ensures that every object participates in the clustering equivalently. For each cluster, C j , 0 < n i=1 w ij < n. This requirement ensures that for every cluster, there is at least one object for which the membership value is nonzero. Example 11.4 Fuzzy clusters. Suppose the AllElectronics online store has six reviews. The keywords contained in these reviews are listed in Table 11.2. We can group the reviews into two fuzzy clusters, C 1 and C 2 . C 1 is for "digital camera" and "lens," and C 2 is for "computer." The partition matrix is Here, we use the keywords "digital camera" and "lens" as the features of cluster C 1 , and "computer" as the feature of cluster C 2 . For review, R i , and cluster, C j (1 ≤ i ≤ 6, 1 ≤ j ≤ 2), w ij is defined as In this fuzzy clustering, review R 4 belongs to clusters C 1 and C 2 with membership degrees 2 3 and 1 3 , respectively. "How can we evaluate how well a fuzzy clustering describes a data set?" Consider a set of objects, o 1 , . . . , o n , and a fuzzy clustering C of k clusters, C 1 , . . . , C k . Let M = [w ij ] (1 ≤ i ≤ n, 1 ≤ j ≤ k) be the partition matrix. Let c 1 , . . . , c k be the centers of clusters C 1 , . . . , C k , respectively. Here, a center can be defined either as the mean or the medoid, or in other ways specific to the application. As discussed in Chapter 10, the distance or similarity between an object and the center of the cluster to which the object is assigned can be used to measure how well the  where the parameter p(p ≥ 1) controls the influence of the degrees of membership. The larger the value of p, the larger the influence of the degrees of membership. Orthogonally, the SSE for a cluster, C j , is Finally, the SSE of the clustering is defined as The SSE can be used to measure how well a fuzzy clustering fits a data set. Fuzzy clustering is also called soft clustering because it allows an object to belong to more than one cluster. It is easy to see that traditional (rigid) clustering, which enforces each object to belong to only one cluster exclusively, is a special case of fuzzy clustering. We defer the discussion of how to compute fuzzy clustering to Section 11.1.3. 