"Fuzzy clusters (Section 11.1.1) provide the flexibility of allowing an object to participate in multiple clusters. Is there a general framework to specify clusterings where objects may participate in multiple clusters in a probabilistic way?" In this section, we introduce the general notion of probabilistic model-based clusters to answer this question. As discussed in Chapter 10, we conduct cluster analysis on a data set because we assume that the objects in the data set in fact belong to different inherent categories. Recall that clustering tendency analysis (Section 10.6.1) can be used to examine whether a data set contains objects that may lead to meaningful clusters. Here, the inherent categories hidden in the data are latent, which means they cannot be directly observed. Instead, we have to infer them using the data observed. For example, the topics hidden in a set of reviews in the AllElectronics online store are latent because one cannot read the topics directly. However, the topics can be inferred from the reviews because each review is about one or multiple topics. Therefore, the goal of cluster analysis is to find hidden categories. A data set that is the subject of cluster analysis can be regarded as a sample of the possible instances of the hidden categories, but without any category labels. The clusters derived from cluster analysis are inferred using the data set, and are designed to approach the hidden categories. Statistically, we can assume that a hidden category is a distribution over the data space, which can be mathematically represented using a probability density function (or distribution function). We call such a hidden category a probabilistic cluster. For a probabilistic cluster, C, its probability density function, f , and a point, o, in the data space, f (o) is the relative likelihood that an instance of C appears at o. Example 11.5 Probabilistic clusters. Suppose the digital cameras sold by AllElectronics can be divided into two categories: C 1 , a consumer line (e.g., point-and-shoot cameras), and C 2 , a professional line (e.g., single-lens reflex cameras). Their respective probability density functions, f 1 and f 2 , are shown in Figure 11.1 with respect to the attribute price. For a price value of, say, $1000, f 1 (1000) is the relative likelihood that the price of a consumer-line camera is $1000. Similarly, f 2 (1000) is the relative likelihood that the price of a professional-line camera is $1000. The probability density functions, f 1 and f 2 , cannot be observed directly. Instead, AllElectronics can only infer these distributions by analyzing the prices of the digital cameras it sells. Moreover, a camera often does not come with a well-determined category (e.g., "consumer line" or "professional line"). Instead, such categories are typically based on user background knowledge and can vary. For example, a camera in the prosumer segment may be regarded at the high end of the consumer line by some customers, and the low end of the professional line by others. As an analyst at AllElectronics, you can consider each category as a probabilistic cluster, and conduct cluster analysis on the price of cameras to approach these categories.  