"How can we compute fuzzy clusterings and probabilistic model-based clusterings?" In this section, we introduce a principled approach. Let's start with a review of the k-means clustering problem and the k-means algorithm studied in Chapter 10. It can easily be shown that k-means clustering is a special case of fuzzy clustering (Exercise 11.1). The k-means algorithm iterates until the clustering cannot be improved. Each iteration consists of two steps: The expectation step (E-step): Given the current cluster centers, each object is assigned to the cluster with a center that is closest to the object. Here, an object is expected to belong to the closest cluster. The maximization step (M-step): Given the cluster assignment, for each cluster, the algorithm adjusts the center so that the sum of the distances from the objects assigned to this cluster and the new center is minimized. That is, the similarity of objects assigned to a cluster is maximized. We can generalize this two-step method to tackle fuzzy clustering and probabilistic model-based clustering. In general, an expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm is a framework that approaches maximum likelihood or maximum a posteriori estimates of parameters in statistical models. In the context of fuzzy or probabilistic model-based clustering, an EM algorithm starts with an initial set of parameters and iterates until the clustering cannot be improved, that is, until the clustering converges or the change is sufficiently small (less than a preset threshold). Each iteration also consists of two steps: The expectation step assigns objects to clusters according to the current fuzzy clustering or parameters of probabilistic clusters. The maximization step finds the new clustering or parameters that maximize the SSE in fuzzy clustering (Eq. 11.4) or the expected likelihood in probabilistic model-based clustering. Example 11.7 Fuzzy clustering using the EM algorithm. Consider the six points in Figure 11.2, where the coordinates of the points are also shown. Let's compute two fuzzy clusters using the EM algorithm. We randomly select two points, say c 1 = a and c 2 = b, as the initial centers of the two clusters. The first iteration conducts the expectation step and the maximization step as follows. In the E-step, for each point we calculate its membership degree in each cluster. For any point, o, we assign o to c 1 and c 2 with membership weights   where j = 1, 2. 