Before we present any specific methods for clustering high-dimensional data, let's first demonstrate the needs of cluster analysis on high-dimensional data using examples. We examine the challenges that call for new methods. We then categorize the major methods according to whether they search for clusters in subspaces of the original space, or whether they create a new lower-dimensionality space and search for clusters there. In some applications, a data object may be described by 10 or more attributes. Such objects are referred to as a high-dimensional data space. Example 11.9 High-dimensional data and clustering. AllElectronics keeps track of the products purchased by every customer. As a customer-relationship manager, you want to cluster customers into groups according to what they purchased from AllElectronics. 11.2 Clustering High-Dimensional Data 509  The customer purchase data are of very high dimensionality. AllElectronics carries tens of thousands of products. Therefore, a customer's purchase profile, which is a vector of the products carried by the company, has tens of thousands of dimensions. "Are the traditional distance measures, which are frequently used in low-dimensional cluster analysis, also effective on high-dimensional data?" Consider the customers in Table 11.4, where 10 products, P 1 , . . . , P 10 , are used in demonstration. If a customer purchases a product, a 1 is set at the corresponding bit; otherwise, a 0 appears. Let's calculate the Euclidean distances (Eq. 2.16) among Ada, Bob, and Cathy. It is easy to see that According to Euclidean distance, the three customers are equivalently similar (or dissimilar) to each other. However, a close look tells us that Ada should be more similar to Cathy than to Bob because Ada and Cathy share one common purchased item, P 1 . As shown in Example 11.9, the traditional distance measures can be ineffective on high-dimensional data. Such distance measures may be dominated by the noise in many dimensions. Therefore, clusters in the full, high-dimensional space can be unreliable, and finding such clusters may not be meaningful. "Then what kinds of clusters are meaningful on high-dimensional data?" For cluster analysis of high-dimensional data, we still want to group similar objects together. However, the data space is often too big and too messy. An additional challenge is that we need to find not only clusters, but, for each cluster, a set of attributes that manifest the cluster. In other words, a cluster on high-dimensional data often is defined using a small set of attributes instead of the full data space. Essentially, clustering high-dimensional data should return groups of objects as clusters (as conventional cluster analysis does), in addition to, for each cluster, the set of attributes that characterize the cluster. For example, in Table 11.4, to characterize the similarity between Ada and Cathy, P 1 may be returned as the attribute because Ada and Cathy both purchased P 1 . Clustering high-dimensional data is the search for clusters and the space in which they exist. Thus, there are two major kinds of methods: Subspace clustering approaches search for clusters existing in subspaces of the given high-dimensional data space, where a subspace is defined using a subset of attributes in the full space. Subspace clustering approaches are discussed in Section 11.2.2. Dimensionality reduction approaches try to construct a much lower-dimensional space and search for clusters in such a space. Often, a method may construct new dimensions by combining some dimensions from the original data. Dimensionality reduction methods are the topic of Section 11.2.4. In general, clustering high-dimensional data raises several new challenges in addition to those of conventional clustering: A major issue is how to create appropriate models for clusters in high-dimensional data. Unlike conventional clusters in low-dimensional spaces, clusters hidden in high-dimensional data are often significantly smaller. For example, when clustering customer-purchase data, we would not expect many users to have similar purchase patterns. Searching for such small but meaningful clusters is like finding needles in a haystack. As shown before, the conventional distance measures can be ineffective. Instead, we often have to consider various more sophisticated techniques that can model correlations and consistency among objects in subspaces. There are typically an exponential number of possible subspaces or dimensionality reduction options, and thus the optimal solutions are often computationally prohibitive. For example, if the original data space has 1000 dimensions, and we want to find clusters of dimensionality 10, then there are 1000 10 = 2.63 × 10 23 possible subspaces. 