A subspace search method searches various subspaces for clusters. Here, a cluster is a subset of objects that are similar to each other in a subspace. The similarity is often captured by conventional measures such as distance or density. For example, the CLIQUE algorithm introduced in Section 10.5.2 is a subspace clustering method. It enumerates subspaces and the clusters in those subspaces in a dimensionality-increasing order, and applies antimonotonicity to prune subspaces in which no cluster may exist. A major challenge that subspace search methods face is how to search a series of subspaces effectively and efficiently. Generally there are two kinds of strategies: Bottom-up approaches start from low-dimensional subspaces and search higherdimensional subspaces only when there may be clusters in those higher-dimensional 11.2 Clustering High-Dimensional Data 511 subspaces. Various pruning techniques are explored to reduce the number of higherdimensional subspaces that need to be searched. CLIQUE is an example of a bottom-up approach. Top-down approaches start from the full space and search smaller and smaller subspaces recursively. Top-down approaches are effective only if the locality assumption holds, which require that the subspace of a cluster can be determined by the local neighborhood. Example 11.10 PROCLUS, a top-down subspace approach. PROCLUS is a k-medoid-like method that first generates k potential cluster centers for a high-dimensional data set using a sample of the data set. It then refines the subspace clusters iteratively. In each iteration, for each of the current k-medoids, PROCLUS considers the local neighborhood of the medoid in the whole data set, and identifies a subspace for the cluster by minimizing the standard deviation of the distances of the points in the neighborhood to the medoid on each dimension. Once all the subspaces for the medoids are determined, each point in the data set is assigned to the closest medoid according to the corresponding subspace. Clusters and possible outliers are identified. In the next iteration, new medoids replace existing ones if doing so improves the clustering quality. 