Clustering Subspace clustering methods try to find clusters in subspaces of the original data space. In some situations, it is more effective to construct a new space instead of using subspaces of the original data. This is the motivation behind dimensionality reduction methods for clustering high-dimensional data. Example 11.14 Clustering in a derived space. Consider the three clusters of points in Figure 11.9. It is not possible to cluster these points in any subspace of the original space, X × Y , because Although Example 11.14 involves only two dimensions, the idea of constructing a new space (so that any clustering structure that is hidden in the data becomes well manifested) can be extended to high-dimensional data. Preferably, the newly constructed space should have low dimensionality. There are many dimensionality reduction methods. A straightforward approach is to apply feature selection and extraction methods to the data set such as those discussed in Chapter 3. However, such methods may not be able to detect the clustering structure. Therefore, methods that combine feature extraction and clustering are preferred. In this section, we introduce spectral clustering, a group of methods that are effective in highdimensional data applications. Figure 11.10 shows the general framework for spectral clustering approaches. The Ng-Jordan-Weiss algorithm is a spectral clustering method. Let's have a look at each step of the framework. In doing so, we also note special conditions that apply to the Ng-Jordan-Weiss algorithm as an example. Given a set of objects, o 1 , . . . , o n , the distance between each pair of objects, dist(o i , o j ) (1 ≤ i, j ≤ n), and the desired number k of clusters, a spectral clustering approach works as follows. 1. Using the distance measure, calculate an affinity matrix, W , such that where σ is a scaling parameter that controls how fast the affinity W ij decreases as dist(o i , o j ) increases. In the Ng-Jordan-Weiss algorithm, W ii is set to 0. 2. Using the affinity matrix W , derive a matrix A = f (W ). The way in which this is done can vary. The Ng-Jordan-Weiss algorithm defines a matrix, D, as a diagonal matrix such that D ii is the sum of the ith row of W , that is, A is then set to (11.25) 3. Find the k leading eigenvectors of A. Recall that the eigenvectors of a square matrix are the nonzero vectors that remain proportional to the original vector after being multiplied by the matrix. Mathematically, a vector v is an eigenvector of matrix A if Av = λv, where λ is called the corresponding eigenvalue. This step derives k new dimensions from A, which are based on the affinity matrix W . Typically, k should be much smaller than the dimensionality of the original data. The Ng-Jordan-Weiss algorithm computes the k eigenvectors with the largest eigenvalues x 1 , . . . , x k of A. 