In conventional cluster analysis, an object is assigned to one cluster exclusively. However, in some applications, there is a need to assign an object to one or more clusters in a fuzzy or probabilistic way. Fuzzy clustering and probabilistic model-based clustering allow an object to belong to one or more clusters. A partition matrix records the membership degree of objects belonging to clusters. Probabilistic model-based clustering assumes that a cluster is a parameterized distribution. Using the data to be clustered as the observed samples, we can estimate the parameters of the clusters. A mixture model assumes that a set of observed objects is a mixture of instances from multiple probabilistic clusters. Conceptually, each observed object is generated independently by first choosing a probabilistic cluster according to the probabilities of the clusters, and then choosing a sample according to the probability density function of the chosen cluster. An expectation-maximization algorithm is a framework for approaching maximum likelihood or maximum a posteriori estimates of parameters in statistical models. Expectation-maximization algorithms can be used to compute fuzzy clustering and probabilistic model-based clustering. High-dimensional data pose several challenges for cluster analysis, including how to model high-dimensional clusters and how to search for such clusters. There are two major categories of clustering methods for high-dimensional data: subspace clustering methods and dimensionality reduction methods. Subspace clustering methods search for clusters in subspaces of the original space. Examples include subspace search methods, correlation-based clustering methods, and biclustering methods. Dimensionality reduction methods create a new space of lower dimensionality and search for clusters there. Biclustering methods cluster objects and attributes simultaneously. Types of biclusters include biclusters with constant values, constant values on rows/columns, coherent values, and coherent evolutions on rows/columns. Two major types of biclustering methods are optimization-based methods and enumeration methods. 