Stemming is the process of reducing a word to a base form. This is especially useful for search engines. If a user wants to find books about running, documents containing the word run or runs would not match. If we apply a stemming algorithm to a word, it is more likely that other forms of the word will match it in an information retrieval task. The Like stop word removal, stemming tries to keep the basic meaning behind the original text. Can you still make sense of it after it's stemmed? 4.3. Part-of-Speech Tagging. When learning English, students often encounter different grammatical labels for words, such as noun, adjective, verb, etc. In linguistics and computer science, there is a much larger dichotomy of these labels called part of speech (POS) tags. Each word can be assigned a tag based on surrounding words. Consider the following sentence: All hotel rooms are pretty much the same, although the room number might change. Here's a part-of-speech tagged version: Above, V BP and V B are different types of verbs, NN and NNS are singular and plural nouns, and DT means determiner. This is just a subset of about 80 commonly used tags. Not every word has a unique part of speech tag. For instance, flies and like can have multiple tags depending on the context: Such situations can make POS-tagging challenging. Nevertheless, human agreement on POS tag labeling is about 97%, which is the ceiling for automatic taggers. POS tags can be used in text analysis as an alternate (or additional) representation to words. Using these tags captures a slightly more grammatical sense of a document or corpus. The profile program has two options for POS tagging. The first annotates each word like the examples above, and the second replaces each word with its POS tag. ./profile config.toml two-cities.txt --pos ./profile config.toml two-cities.txt --pos-replace Note that POS tagging the book may take up to one minute to complete. Does it look like META's POS tagger is accurate? Can you find any mistakes? When replacing the words with their tags, is it possible to determine what the original sentence was? Experiment with the book or any other text file. 