Create knowledge Add structure/annotations Organization Figure 1.2 Information access, knowledge acquisition, and text organization are three major capabilities of a text information system with text organization playing a supporting role for information access and knowledge acquisition. Knowledge acquisition is also often referred to as text mining. generally only does minimum analysis of text data sufficient for matching relevant information with a user's information need, and the original information items (e.g., web pages) are often delivered to the user in their original form, though summaries of the delivered items are often provided. From the perspective of text analysis, a user would generally need to read the information items to further digest and exploit the delivered information. Knowledge Acquisition (Text Analysis). This capability enables a user to acquire useful knowledge encoded in the text data that is not easy for a user to obtain without synthesizing and analyzing a relatively large portion of the data. In this case, a TIS can analyze a large amount of text data to discover interesting patterns buried in text. A TIS with the capability of knowledge acquisition can be referred to as an analysis engine. For example, while a search engine can return relevant reviews of a product to a user, an analysis engine would enable a user to obtain directly the major positive or negative opinions about the product and to compare opinions about multiple similar products. A TIS offering the capability of knowledge acquisition generally would have to analyze text data in more detail and synthesize information from multiple text documents, discover interesting patterns, and create new information or knowledge. Text Organization. This capability enables a TIS to annotate a collection of text documents with meaningful (topical) structures so that scattered information can be connected and a user can navigate in the information space by following the structures. While such structures may be regarded as "knowledge" acquired from the text data, and thus can be directly useful to users, in general, they are often only useful for facilitating either information access or knowledge acquisition, or both. In this sense, the capability of text organization plays a supporting role in a TIS to make information access and knowledge acquisition more effective. For example, the added structures can allow a user to search with constraints on structures or browse by following structures. The structures can also be leveraged to perform detailed analysis with consideration of constraints on structures. Information access can be further classified into two modes: pull and push. In the pull mode, the user takes initiative to "pull" the useful information out from the system; in this case, the system plays a passive role and waits for a user to make a request, to which the system would then respond with relevant information. This mode of information access is often very useful when a user has an ad hoc 1.1 Functions of Text Information Systems 9 information need, i.e., a temporary information need (e.g., an immediate need for opinions about a product). For example, a search engine like Google generally serves a user in pull mode. In the push mode, the system takes initiative to "push" (recommend) to the user an information item that the system believes is useful to the user. The push mode often works well when the user has a relatively stable information need (e.g., hobby of a person); in such a case, a system can know "in advance" a user's preferences and interests, making it feasible to recommend information to a user without having the user to take the initiative. We cover both modes of information access in this book. The pull mode further consists of two complementary ways for a user to obtain relevant information: querying and browsing. In the case of querying, the user specifies the information need with a (keyword) query, and the system would take the query as input and return documents that are estimated to be relevant to the query. In the case of browsing, the user simply navigates along structures that link information items together and progressively reaches relevant information. Since querying can also be regarded as a way to navigate, in one step, into a set of relevant documents, it's clear that browsing and querying can be interleaved naturally. Indeed, a user of a web search engine often interleaves querying and browsing. Knowledge acquisition from text data is often achieved through the process of text mining, which can be defined as mining text data to discover useful knowledge. Both the data mining community and the natural language processing (NLP) community have developed methods for text mining, although the two communities tend to adopt slightly different perspective on the problem. From a data mining perspective, we may view text mining as mining a special kind of data, i.e., text. Following the general goals of data mining, the goal of text mining would naturally be regarded as to discover and extract interesting patterns in text data, which can include latent topics, topical trends, or outliers. From an NLP perspective, text mining can be regarded as to partially understand natural language text, convert text into some form of knowledge representation and make limited inferences based on the extracted knowledge. Thus a key task is to perform information extraction, which often aims to identify and extract mentions of various entities (e.g., people, organization, and location) and their relations (e.g., who met with whom). In practice, of course, any text mining applications would likely involve both pattern discovery (i.e., data mining view) and information extraction (i.e., NLP view), with information extraction serving as enriching the semantic representation of text, which enables pattern finding algorithms to generate semantically more meaningful patterns than directly working on word or string-level representations of text. Due to our emphasis on covering general and robust techniques that can work for all kinds of text data without much manual effort, we mostly adopt the data mining view in this book since information extraction techniques tend to be more languagespecific and generally require much manual effort. However, it is important to stress that information extraction is an essential component in any text information system that attempts to support deeper knowledge discovery or semantic analysis. Applications of text mining can be classified as either direct applications, where the discovered knowledge would be directly consumed by users, or indirect applications, where the discovered knowledge isn't necessarily directly useful to a user, but can indirectly help a user through better support of information access. Knowledge acquisition can also be further classified based on what knowledge is to be discovered. However, due to the wide range of variations of the "knowledge," it is impossible to use a small number of categories to cover all the variations. Nevertheless, we can still identify a few common categories which we cover in this book. For example, one type of knowledge that a TIS can discover is a set of topics or subtopics buried in text data, which can serve as a concise summary of the major content in the text data. Another type of knowledge that can be acquired from opinionated text is the overall sentiment polarity of opinions about a topic. 