The World Wide Web serves as a huge, widely distributed, global information center for news, advertisements, consumer information, financial management, education, government, and e-commerce. It contains a rich and dynamic collection of information about web page contents with hypertext structures and multimedia, hyperlink information, and access and usage information, providing fertile sources for data mining. Web mining is the application of data mining techniques to discover patterns, structures, and knowledge from the Web. According to analysis targets, web mining can be organized into three main areas: web content mining, web structure mining, and web usage mining. Web content mining analyzes web content such as text, multimedia data, and structured data (within web pages or linked across web pages). This is done to understand the content of web pages, provide scalable and informative keyword-based page indexing, entity/concept resolution, web page relevance and ranking, web page content summaries, and other valuable information related to web search and analysis. Web pages can reside either on the surface web or on the deep Web. The surface web is that portion of the Web that is indexed by typical search engines. The deep Web (or hidden Web) refers to web content that is not part of the surface web. Its contents are provided by underlying database engines. Web content mining has been studied extensively by researchers, search engines, and other web service companies. Web content mining can build links across multiple web pages for individuals; therefore, it has the potential to inappropriately disclose personal information. Studies on privacy-preserving data mining address this concern through the development of techniques to protect personal privacy on the Web. Web structure mining is the process of using graph and network mining theory and methods to analyze the nodes and connection structures on the Web. It extracts patterns from hyperlinks, where a hyperlink is a structural component that connects a web page to another location. It can also mine the document structure within a page (e.g., analyze the treelike structure of page structures to describe HTML or XML tag usage). Both kinds of web structure mining help us understand web contents and may also help transform web contents into relatively structured data sets. Web usage mining is the process of extracting useful information (e.g., user click streams) from server logs. It finds patterns related to general or particular groups of users; understands users' search patterns, trends, and associations; and predicts what users are looking for on the Internet. It helps improve search efficiency and effectiveness, as well as promotes products or related information to different groups of users at the right time. Web search companies routinely conduct web usage mining to improve their quality of service. 