Retail and Telecommunication Industries Figure 13.12 Common data mining application domains. Financial data collected in the banking and financial industry are often relatively complete, reliable, and of high quality, which facilitates systematic data analysis and data mining. Here we present a few typical cases. Design and construction of data warehouses for multidimensional data analysis and data mining: Like many other applications, data warehouses need to be constructed for banking and financial data. Multidimensional data analysis methods should be used to analyze the general properties of such data. For example, a company's financial officer may want to view the debt and revenue changes by month, region, and sector, and other factors, along with maximum, minimum, total, average, trend, deviation, and other statistical information. Data warehouses, data cubes (including advanced data cube concepts such as multifeature, discovery-driven, regression, and prediction data cubes), characterization and class comparisons, clustering, and outlier analysis will all play important roles in financial data analysis and mining. Loan payment prediction and customer credit policy analysis: Loan payment prediction and customer credit analysis are critical to the business of a bank. Many factors can strongly or weakly influence loan payment performance and customer credit rating. Data mining methods, such as attribute selection and attribute relevance ranking, may help identify important factors and eliminate irrelevant ones. For example, factors related to the risk of loan payments include loan-to-value ratio, term of the loan, debt ratio (total amount of monthly debt versus total monthly income), payment-to-income ratio, customer income level, education level, residence region, and credit history. Analysis of the customer payment history may find that, say, payment-to-income ratio is a dominant factor, while education level and debt ratio are not. The bank may then decide to adjust its loan-granting policy so as to grant loans to those customers whose applications were previously denied but whose profiles show relatively low risks according to the critical factor analysis. Classification and clustering of customers for targeted marketing: Classification and clustering methods can be used for customer group identification and targeted marketing. For example, we can use classification to identify the most crucial factors that may influence a customer's decision regarding banking. Customers with similar behaviors regarding loan payments may be identified by multidimensional clustering techniques. These can help identify customer groups, associate a new customer with an appropriate customer group, and facilitate targeted marketing. 