This method builds models of normal network behavior (called profiles) that are then used to detect new patterns that significantly deviate from the profiles. Such deviations may represent actual intrusions or simply be new behaviors that need to be added to the profiles. The main advantage of anomaly detection is that it may detect novel intrusions that have not yet been observed. Typically, a human analyst must sort through the deviations to ascertain which represent real intrusions. A limiting factor of anomaly detection is the high percentage of false positives. New patterns of intrusion can be added to the set of signatures to enhance signature-based detection. Data mining methods can help an intrusion detection and prevention system to enhance its performance in various ways as follows. New data mining algorithms for intrusion detection: Data mining algorithms can be used for both signature-based and anomaly-based detection. In signature-based detection, training data are labeled as either "normal" or "intrusion." A classifier can then be derived to detect known intrusions. Research in this area has included the application of classification algorithms, association rule mining, and cost-sensitive modeling. Anomaly-based detection builds models of normal behavior and automatically detects significant deviations from it. Methods include the application of clustering, outlier analysis, and classification algorithms and statistical approaches. The techniques used must be efficient and scalable, and capable of handling network data of high volume, dimensionality, and heterogeneity. Association, correlation, and discriminative pattern analyses help select and build discriminative classifiers: Association, correlation, and discriminative pattern mining can be applied to find relationships between system attributes describing the network data. Such information can provide insight regarding the selection of useful attributes for intrusion detection. New attributes derived from aggregated data may also be helpful such as summary counts of traffic matching a particular pattern. Analysis of stream data: Due to the transient and dynamic nature of intrusions and malicious attacks, it is crucial to perform intrusion detection in the data stream environment. Moreover, an event may be normal on its own, but considered malicious if viewed as part of a sequence of events. Thus, it is necessary to study what sequences of events are frequently encountered together, find sequential patterns, and identify outliers. Other data mining methods for finding evolving clusters and building dynamic classification models in data streams are also necessary for real-time intrusion detection. Distributed data mining: Intrusions can be launched from several different locations and targeted to many different destinations. Distributed data mining methods may be used to analyze network data from several network locations to detect these distributed attacks. Visualization and querying tools: Visualization tools should be available for viewing any anomalous patterns detected. Such tools may include features for viewing associations, discriminative patterns, clusters, and outliers. Intrusion detection systems should also have a graphical user interface that allows security analysts to pose queries regarding the network data or intrusion detection results. In summary, computer systems are at continual risk of breaks in security. Data mining technology can be used to develop strong intrusion detection and prevention systems, which may employ signature-based or anomaly-based detection. 