Today's consumers are faced with millions of goods and services when shopping online. Recommender systems help consumers by making product recommendations that are likely to be of interest to the user such as books, CDs, movies, restaurants, online news articles, and other services. Recommender systems may use either a contentbased approach, a collaborative approach, or a hybrid approach that combines both content-based and collaborative methods. The content-based approach recommends items that are similar to items the user preferred or queried in the past. It relies on product features and textual item descriptions. The collaborative approach (or collaborative filtering approach) may consider a user's social environment. It recommends items based on the opinions of other customers who have similar tastes or preferences as the user. Recommender systems use a broad range of techniques from information retrieval, statistics, machine learning, and data mining to search for similarities among items and customer preferences. Consider Example 13.1. Example 13.1 Scenarios of using a recommender system. Suppose that you visit the web site of an online bookstore (e.g., Amazon) with the intention of purchasing a book that you have been wanting to read. You type in the name of the book. This is not the first time you have visited the web site. You have browsed through it before and even made purchases from it last Christmas. The web store remembers your previous visits, having stored click stream information and information regarding your past purchases. The system displays the description and price of the book you have just specified. It compares your interests with other customers having similar interests and recommends additional book titles, saying "Customers who bought the book you have specified also bought these other titles as well." From surveying the list, you see another title that sparks your interest and decide to purchase that one as well. Now suppose you go to another online store with the intention of purchasing a digital camera. The system suggests additional items to consider based on previously mined sequential patterns, such as "Customers who buy this kind of digital camera are likely to buy a particular brand of printer, memory card, or photo editing software within three months." You decide to buy just the camera, without any additional items. A week later, you receive coupons from the store regarding the additional items. An advantage of recommender systems is that they provide personalization for customers of e-commerce, promoting one-to-one marketing. Amazon, a pioneer in the use of collaborative recommender systems, offers "a personalized store for every customer" as part of their marketing strategy. Personalization can benefit both consumers and the company involved. By having more accurate models of their customers, companies gain a better understanding of customer needs. Serving these needs can result in greater success regarding cross-selling of related products, upselling, product affinities, one-to-one promotions, larger baskets, and customer retention. The recommendation problem considers a set, C, of users and a set, S, of items. Let u be a utility function that measures the usefulness of an item, s, to a user, c. The utility is commonly represented by a rating and is initially defined only for items previously rated by users. For example, when joining a movie recommendation system, users are typically asked to rate several movies. The space C × S of all possible users and items is huge. The recommendation system should be able to extrapolate from known to unknown ratings so as to predict item-user combinations. Items with the highest predicted rating/utility for a user are recommended to that user. "How is the utility of an item estimated for a user?" In content-based methods, it is estimated based on the utilities assigned by the same user to other items that are similar. Many such systems focus on recommending items containing textual information, such as web sites, articles, and news messages. They look for commonalities among items. For movies, they may look for similar genres, directors, or actors. For articles, they may look for similar terms. Content-based methods are rooted in information theory. They make use of keywords (describing the items) and user profiles that contain information about users' tastes and needs. Such profiles may be obtained explicitly (e.g., through questionnaires) or learned from users' transactional behavior over time. A collaborative recommender system tries to predict the utility of items for a user, u, based on items previously rated by other users who are similar to u. For example, when recommending books, a collaborative recommender system tries to find other users who have a history of agreeing with u (e.g., they tend to buy similar books, or give similar ratings for books). Collaborative recommender systems can be either memory (or heuristic) based or model based. Memory-based methods essentially use heuristics to make rating predictions based on the entire collection of items previously rated by users. That is, the unknown rating of an item-user combination can be estimated as an aggregate of ratings of the most similar users for the same item. Typically, a k-nearest-neighbor approach is used, that is, we find the k other users (or neighbors) that are most similar to our target user, u. Various approaches can be used to compute the similarity between users. The most popular approaches use either Pearson's correlation coefficient (Section 3.3.2) or cosine similarity (Section 2.4.7). A weighted aggregate can be used, which adjusts for the fact that different users may use the rating scale differently. Model-based collaborative recommender systems use a collection of ratings to learn a model, which is then used to make rating predictions. For example, probabilistic models, clustering (which finds clusters of like-minded customers), Bayesian networks, and other machine learning techniques have been used. Recommender systems face major challenges such as scalability and ensuring quality recommendations to the consumer. For example, regarding scalability, collaborative recommender systems must be able to search through millions of potential neighbors in real time. If the site is using browsing patterns as indications of product preference, it may have thousands of data points for some of its customers. Ensuring quality recommendations is essential to gain consumers' trust. If consumers follow a system recommendation but then do not end up liking the product, they are less likely to use the recommender system again. As with classification systems, recommender systems can make two types of errors: false negatives and false positives. Here, false negatives are products that the system fails to recommend, although the consumer would like them. False positives are products that are recommended, but which the consumer does not like. False positives are less desirable because they can annoy or anger consumers. Content-based recommender systems are limited by the features used to describe the items they recommend. Another challenge for both content-based and collaborative recommender systems is how to deal with new users for which a buying history is not yet available. Hybrid approaches integrate both content-based and collaborative methods to achieve further improved recommendations. The Netflix Prize was an open competition held by an online DVD-rental service, with a payout of $1,000,000 for the best recommender algorithm to predict user ratings for films, based on previous ratings. The competition and other studies have shown that the predictive accuracy of a recommender system can be substantially improved when blending multiple predictors, especially by using an ensemble of many substantially different methods, rather than refining a single technique. Collaborative recommender systems are a form of intelligent query answering, which consists of analyzing the intent of a query and providing generalized, neighborhood, or associated information relevant to the query. For example, rather than simply returning the book description and price in response to a customer's query, returning additional information that is related to the query but that was not explicitly asked for (e.g., book evaluation comments, recommendations of other books, or sales statistics) provides an intelligent answer to the same query. 