Data mining is present in many aspects of our daily lives, whether we realize it or not. It affects how we shop, work, and search for information, and can even influence our leisure time, health, and well-being. In this section, we look at examples of such ubiquitous (or ever-present) data mining. Several of these examples also represent invisible data mining, in which "smart" software, such as search engines, customer-adaptive web services (e.g., using recommender algorithms), "intelligent" database systems, email managers, ticket masters, and so on, incorporates data mining into its functional components, often unbeknownst to the user. From grocery stores that print personalized coupons on customer receipts to online stores that recommend additional items based on customer interests, data mining has innovatively influenced what we buy, the way we shop, and our experience while shopping. One example is Wal-Mart, which has hundreds of millions of customers visiting its tens of thousands of stores every week. Wal-Mart allows suppliers to access data on their products and perform analyses using data mining software. This allows suppliers to identify customer buying patterns at different stores, control inventory and product placement, and identify new merchandizing opportunities. All of these affect which items (and how many) end up on the stores' shelves-something to think about the next time you wander through the aisles at Wal-Mart. Data mining has shaped the online shopping experience. Many shoppers routinely turn to online stores to purchase books, music, movies, and toys. Recommender systems, discussed in Section 13.3.5, offer personalized product recommendations based on the opinions of other customers. Amazon.com was at the forefront of using such a personalized, data mining-based approach as a marketing strategy. It has observed that in traditional brick-and-mortar stores, the hardest part is getting the customer into the store. Once the customer is there, he or she is likely to buy something, since the cost of going to another store is high. Therefore, the marketing for brick-and-mortar stores tends to emphasize drawing customers in, rather than the actual in-store customer experience. This is in contrast to online stores, where customers can "walk out" and enter another online store with just a click of the mouse. Amazon.com capitalized on this difference, offering a "personalized store for every customer." They use several data mining techniques to identify customer's likes and make reliable recommendations. While we are on the topic of shopping, suppose you have been doing a lot of buying with your credit cards. Nowadays, it is not unusual to receive a phone call from one's credit card company regarding suspicious or unusual patterns of spending. Credit card companies use data mining to detect fraudulent usage, saving billions of dollars a year. Many companies increasingly use data mining for customer relationship management (CRM), which helps provide more customized, personal service addressing individual customer's needs, in lieu of mass marketing. By studying browsing and purchasing patterns on web stores, companies can tailor advertisements and promotions to customer profiles, so that customers are less likely to be annoyed with unwanted mass mailings or junk mail. These actions can result in substantial cost savings for companies. The customers further benefit in that they are more likely to be notified of offers that are actually of interest, resulting in less waste of personal time and greater satisfaction. Data mining has greatly influenced the ways in which people use computers, search for information, and work. Once you get on the Internet, for example, you decide to check your email. Unbeknownst to you, several annoying emails have already been deleted, thanks to a spam filter that uses classification algorithms to recognize spam. After processing your email, you go to Google (www.google.com), which provides access to information from billions of web pages indexed on its server. Google is one of the most popular and widely used Internet search engines. Using Google to search for information has become a way of life for many people. Google is so popular that it has even become a new verb in the English language, meaning "to search for (something) on the Internet using the Google search engine or, by extension, any comprehensive search engine." 1 You decide to type in some keywords for a topic of interest. Google returns a list of web sites on your topic, mined, indexed, and organized by a set of data mining algorithms including PageRank. Moreover, if you type "Boston New York," Google will show you bus and train schedules from Boston to New York; however, a minor change to "Boston Paris" will lead to flight schedules from Boston to Paris. Such smart offerings of information or services are likely based on the frequent patterns mined from the click streams of many previous queries. While you are viewing the results of your Google query, various ads pop up relating to your query. Google's strategy of tailoring advertising to match the user's interests is one of the typical services being explored by every Internet search provider. This also makes you happier, because you are less likely to be pestered with irrelevant ads. Data mining is omnipresent, as can be seen from these daily-encountered examples. We could go on and on with such scenarios. In many cases, data mining is invisible, as users may be unaware that they are examining results returned by data mining or that their clicks are actually fed as new data into some data mining functions. For data mining to become further improved and accepted as a technology, continuing research and development are needed in the many areas mentioned as challenges throughout this book. These include efficiency and scalability, increased user interaction, incorporation of background knowledge and visualization techniques, effective methods for finding interesting patterns, improved handling of complex data types and stream data, realtime data mining, web mining, and so on. In addition, the integration of data mining into existing business and scientific technologies, to provide domain-specific data mining tools, will further contribute to the advancement of the technology. The success of data mining solutions tailored for e-commerce applications, as opposed to generic data mining systems, is an example. 