The unique combination of complexity, richness, size, and importance of biological and biomedical data warrants special attention in data mining. Mining DNA and protein sequences, mining highdimensional microarray data, and biological pathway and network analysis are just a few topics in this field. Other areas of biological data mining research include mining biomedical literature, link analysis across heterogeneous biological data, and information integration of biological data by data mining. Data mining with software engineering and system engineering: Software programs and large computer systems have become increasingly bulky in size sophisticated in complexity, and tend to originate from the integration of multiple components developed by different implementation teams. This trend has made it an increasingly challenging task to ensure software robustness and reliability. The analysis of the executions of a buggy software program is essentially a data mining process-tracing the data generated during program executions may disclose important patterns and outliers that could lead to the eventual automated discovery of software bugs. We expect that the further development of data mining methodologies for software/system debugging will enhance software robustness and bring new vigor to software/system engineering. Visual and audio data mining: Visual and audio data mining is an effective way to integrate with humans' visual and audio systems and discover knowledge from huge amounts of data. A systematic development of such techniques will facilitate the promotion of human participation for effective and efficient data analysis. Distributed data mining and real-time data stream mining: Traditional data mining methods, designed to work at a centralized location, do not work well in many of the distributed computing environments present today (e.g., the Internet, intranets, local area networks, high-speed wireless networks, sensor networks, and cloud computing). Advances in distributed data mining methods are expected. Moreover, many applications involving stream data (e.g., e-commerce, Web mining, stock analysis, intrusion detection, mobile data mining, and data mining for counterterrorism) require dynamic data mining models to be built in real time. Additional research is needed in this direction. Privacy protection and information security in data mining: An abundance of personal or confidential information available in electronic forms, coupled with increasingly powerful data mining tools, poses a threat to data privacy and security. Growing interest in data mining for counterterrorism also adds to the concern. 13.6 Summary 625 Further development of privacy-preserving data mining methods is foreseen. The collaboration of technologists, social scientists, law experts, governments, and companies is needed to produce a rigorous privacy and security protection mechanism for data publishing and data mining. With confidence, we look forward to the next generation of data mining technology and the further benefits that it will bring. 