Push mode (long-term) Pull mode (short-term) TIS access modes Browsing Querying In pull mode, the user initiates the access process to find the relevant text data, typically by using a search engine. This mode of text access is essential when a user has an ad hoc information need, i.e., a temporary information need that might disappear once the need is satisfied. In such a case, the user can use a query to find relevant information with a search engine. For example, a user may have a need to buy a product and thus be interested in retrieving all the relevant opinions about candidate products; after the user has purchased the product, the user would generally no longer need such information. Another example is that during the process of analyzing social media data to understand opinions about an emerging event, the analyst may also decide to explore information about a particular entity related to the event (e.g., a person), which can also trigger a search activity. While querying is the most common way of accessing text data in the pull mode, browsing is another complementary way of accessing text data in the pull mode, and can be very useful when a user does not know how to formulate an effective query, or finds it inconvenient to enter a keyword query (e.g., through a smartphone), or simply wants to explore a topic with no fixed goal. Indeed, when searching the Web, users tend to mix querying and browsing (e.g., while traversing through hyperlinks). In general, we may regard querying and browsing as two complementary ways of finding relevant information in the information space. Their relation can be understood by making an analogy between information seeking and sightseeing in a physical world. When a tourist knows the exact address of an attraction, the tourist can simply take a taxi directly to the attraction; this is similar to when a user knows exactly what he or she is looking for and can formulate a query with the 5.1 Access Mode: Pull vs. Push 75 "right keywords," which would bring to the user relevant pages directly. However, if a tourist doesn't know the exact address of an attraction, the tourist may want to take a taxi to an approximate location and then walk around to find the attraction. Similarly, if a user does not have a good knowledge about the target pages, he or she can also use an approximate query to reach some related pages and then browse into truly relevant information. Thus, when querying does not work well, browsing can be very useful. In the push mode, the system initiates the process to recommend a set of relevant information items to the user. This mode of information access is generally more useful to satisfy a long-standing information need of a user or analyst. For example, a researcher's research interests can be regarded as relatively stable over time. In comparison, the information stream (i.e., published research articles) is dynamic. In such a scenario, although a user can regularly search for relevant literature information with queries, it is more desirable for a recommender (also called filtering) system to monitor the dynamic information stream and "push" any relevant articles to the user based on the matching of the articles with the user's interests (e.g., in the form of an email). In some long-term analytics applications, it would also be desirable to use the push mode to monitor any relevant text data (such as relevant social media) about a topic related to the application. Another scenario of push mode is producer-initiated recommendation, which can be more appropriately called selective dissemination of information (SDI). In such a scenario, the producer of information has an interest in disseminating the information among relevant users, and would push an information item to such users. Advertising of product information on search result pages is such an example. The recommendation can be delivered through email notifications or recommended through a search engine result page. There are broadly two kinds of information needs: short-term need and longterm need. Short-term needs are most often associated with pull mode, and longterm needs are most often associated with push mode. A short-term information need is temporary and usually satisfied through search or navigation in the information space, whereas a long-term information need can be better satisfied through filtering or recommendation where the system would take the initiative to push the relevant information to a user. Ad hoc retrieval is extremely important because ad hoc information needs show up far more frequently than long-term information needs. The techniques effective for ad hoc retrieval can usually be re-used for filtering and recommendation as well. Also, in the case of long-term information needs, it is possible to collect user feedback, which can be exploited. In this sense, 76 Chapter 5 Overview of Text Data Access ad hoc retrieval is much harder, as we do not have much feedback information from a user (i.e., little training data for a particular query). Due to the availability of training data, the problem of filtering or recommendation can usually be solved by using supervised machine learning techniques, which are covered well in many existing books. Thus, we will cover ad hoc retrieval in much more detail than filtering and recommendation. 