engine interface to enable a user to browse the information space flexibly. With this interface, a user can do any of the following at any moment. Querying (long-range jump). When a user submits a new query through the search box the search results from a search engine will be shown in the right pane. At the same time, the relevant part of a topic map is also shown on the left pane to facilitate browsing should the user want to. Navigating on the map (short-range walk). The left pane in our interface is to let a user navigate on the map. When a user clicks on a map node, this pane will be refreshed and a local view with the clicked node as the current focus will be displayed. In the local view, we show the parents, the children, and the horizontal neighbors of the current node in focus (labelled as "center" in the interface). A user can thus zoom into a child node, zoom out to a parent node, or navigate into a horizontal neighbor node. The number attached to a node is a score for the node that we use for ranking the nodes. Such a map enables the user to "walk" in the information space to browse into relevant documents without needing to reformulate queries. Viewing a topic region. The user may double-click on a topic node on the map to view the documents covered in the topic region. The search result pane would be updated with new results corresponding to the documents in the selected topic region. From a user's perspective, the result pane always shows the documents in the current region that the user is focused on (either search results of the query or the documents corresponding to a current node on the map when browsing). Viewing a document. Within the result pane, a user can select any document to view as in a standard search interface. In Figure 5.3, we further show an example trace of browsing in which the user started with a query dining table, zoomed into asian dining table, zoomed out back to dining table, browsed horizontally first to dining chair and then to dining furniture, and finally zoomed out to the general topic furniture where the user would have many options to explore different kinds of furniture. If this user feels that a "longjump" is needed, he or she can use a new query to achieve it. Since the map can be hidden and only brought to display when the user needs it, such an interface is a very natural extension of the current search interface from a user's perspective. Thus, we can see how one text access system can combine multiple modes of information access to suit a user's current needs. "asian dining table" 3. Horizontal navigation to "dining chairs" 4. Further navigation to "dining furniture" 5. Zoom out to explore "furniture" 2. Zoom back out to "dining table"  