and would like to find the relevant information immediately. The system to support TR is a text retrieval system, or a search engine. Although TR is sometimes used interchangeably with the more general term "information retrieval" (IR), the latter also includes retrieval of other types of information such as images or videos. It is worth noting, though, that retrieval techniques for other non-textual data are less mature and, as a result, retrieval of other types of information tends to rely on using text retrieval techniques to match a keyword query with companion text data with a non-textual data element. For example, the current image search engines on the Web are essentially a TR system where each image is represented by a text document consisting of any associated text data with the image (e.g., title, caption, or simply textual context of the image such as the news article content where an image is included). In industry, the problem of TR is generally referred to as the search problem, and the techniques for text retrieval are often called search technology or search engine technology. The task of TR can be easy or hard, depending on specific queries and specific collections. For example, during a web search, finding homepages is generally easy, but finding out people's opinions about some topic (e.g., U.S. foreign policy) would be much harder. There are several reasons why TR is difficult: . a query is usually quite short and incomplete (no formal language like SQL); . the information need may be difficult to describe precisely, especially when the user isn't familiar with the topic, and . precise understanding of the document content is difficult. In general, since what counts as the correct answer is subjective, even when human experts judge the relevance of documents, they may disagree with each other. Due to the lack of clear semantic structures and difficulty in natural language understanding, it is often challenging to accurately retrieve relevant information to a user's query. Indeed, even though the current web search engines may appear to be sufficient sometimes, it may still be difficult for a user to quickly locate and harvest all the relevant information for a task. In general, the current search engines work very well for navigational queries and simple, popular informational queries, but in the case where a user has a complex information need such as analyzing opinions about products to buy, or researching medical information about some symptoms, they often work poorly. Moreover, the current search engines generally provide little or no support to help users digest and exploit the retrieved information. As a result, even if a search engine can retrieve the most relevant information, 80 Chapter 5 Overview of Text Data Access a user would still have to sift through a long list of documents and read them in detail to fully digest the knowledge buried in text data in order to perform their task at hand. The techniques discussed later in this book can be exploited to help users digest the found information quickly or directly analyze a large amount of text data to reveal useful and actionable knowledge that can be used to optimize decision making or help a user finish a task. 