Conceptually, a text information system may consist of several modules, as illustrated in Figure 1. 3. First, there is a need for a module of content analysis based on natural language processing techniques. This module allows a TIS to transform raw text data into more meaningful representations that can be more effectively matched with a user's query in the case of a search engine, and more effectively processed in general in text analysis. Current NLP techniques mostly rely on statistical machine learning enhanced with limited linguistic knowledge with variable depth of understanding of text data; shallow techniques are robust, but deeper semantic analysis is only feasible for very limited domains. Some TIS capabilities (e.g., summarization) tend to require deeper NLP than others (e.g., search). Most text information systems use very shallow NLP, where text would simply be represented as a "bag of words," where words are basic units for representation and the order of words is ignored (although the counts of words are retained). However, a more sophisticated representation is also possible, which may be based on recognized entities and relations or other techniques for more in-depth understanding of text. With content analysis as the basis, there are multiple components in a TIS that are useful for users in different ways. The following are some commonly seen functions for managing and analyzing text information. Search. Take a user's query and return relevant documents. The search component in a TIS is generally called a search engine. Web search engines are among the most useful search engines that enable users to effectively and efficiently deal with a huge amount of text data. Filtering/Recommendation. Monitor an incoming stream, decide which items are relevant (or non-relevant) to a user's interest, and then recommend relevant items to the user (or filter out non-relevant items). Depending on whether the system focuses on recognizing relevant items or non-relevant items, this component in a TIS may be called a recommender system (whose goal is to recommend relevant items to users) or a filtering system (whose goal is to filter out non-relevant items to allow a user to keep only the relevant items). Literature recommender and spam email filter are examples of a recommender system and a filtering system, respectively. 